I want to give a huge shout out to today's sponsor expressvpn, friend of the channel and protector of my online data When you think about it the Internet's a pretty scary place that most of us don't know nearly enough about, and yet we Entrust it with like 90 percent of our personal information And all it takes is one malicious person to swoop in and take all of that data and suddenly, ya life is effed. I don't need to tell you what that f stands for...it's fart. but that's where today's sponsor comes in. expressvpn Aka Virtual Private Network. You see, when you browse the web using a VPN., your IP address is masked So not only will the ne'er-do-wells of the Internet not be able to sniff out your data But even the websites you visit won't be able to identify you,  which is great because sometimes we don't want to be identified when we're searching things like 'rash on neck' or 'Neck rash'--we don't have to talk about that but even if you're somebody likes to throw caution to the wind and surf the web unprotected I haven't even told you my favorite feature of a VPN and it's at an unblocks content that may not be available in your region By tricking the internet into thinking that that's where your computer is Let me show you. let's say you're like me and you live in America and you want to watch Archer on Netflix. can't do that! doesn't even show up. Well, I guess I'll just throw my computer away--or hold on, Why don't I just get expressvpn to lie to Netflix by telling them that I live in the United Kingdom? All right a little bit of hacking, infiltrating the mainframe, little beep, little boop, give a little refresh, and bam! now I can watch the show and all it took was a Little sneaky penetration. "um, phrasing." expressvpn has servers in 94 countries So you have plenty of options to choose from and their speeds are consistently faster than other VPNs out there You also get a plan for less than seven dollars a month with a 30-day money-back guarantee. Can't beat that, right Arnold? Alright, that's enough out of you. So if you're interested in taking back your internet privacy today Click the link in the description and/or go to expressvpn.com/drew and get three months free with a one-year package That's expressvpn.com/drew to learn more and take back your internet privacy and anonymity Or if you just want to watch Archer. thank you so much to expressvpn for sponsoring Today's video and being a pal. and also, thank you guys for being so cool whenever I do have sponsors on this channel Not only is it a good way for you guys to get a good deal on something You may not have heard of otherwise But it also supports me by telling these brands that it was a good decision to give me money 