Um, I'll go ahead and end the video the same way that I always do, by holding my breath for as long as possible. Not so fast, bucko. This is just like the last video! Yeah, but even worse because unlike that guy I've got bad intentions. Are you gonna touch my ass? You wish. I'm actually here to steal your data. Noooo! I should've used a virtual private network. Hi. I'm Charles Charles. Has this happened to you? No? Oh. Well, that makes sense. This is a very specific situation. But chances are something like this will happen you at some point, as it does to many Internet users. And that's why I'm here to tell you guys about expressVPN. A couple of weeks ago, my fortnight account got hacked. They changed my password, changed the Authenticator app to a device I didn't have any control over. So even if I tried to reset my password, I couldn't do anything about it because I didn't have access to the authenticator app or whatever. Um, and I was pretty upset. You're probably thinking "Who cares?" and "Why do you still play fortnight?" both valid questions. But for me, it was more of a wake-up call that I haven't been taking my online security very seriously. Which is where expressVPN comes in. when you use a virtual private network all your online data is encrypted, which prevents internet ne'er-do-wells from sniffing it out. It also masks your IP address, so even the websites you visit won't be able to identify you. Have you ever been trying to watch a YouTube video, and you get this? Well, the great thing about using a VPN is you can change your IP address to that of just about any country in the world, Which basically manipulates the internet into thinking you live there, when you don't and then, BOOM, you have access to that YouTube video you couldn't watch, you can now stream that Netflix show that's only available in Canada For some reason. Take control of your internet. expressVPN has consistently faster speeds than other VPN providers. They've got servers in 94 countries. You've got plenty of options. They've got 24/7 customer support, and they've got apps for every single device, so it's not just for your computer. Download it on your Xbox, your phone, your laptop, so when you're traveling abroad you don't have to worry about missing out on things that only go in your country. It's great. Best part is, it's so easy to set up, that even this idiot over here can do it, right? Drew? Oh, yeah, let me just do that, real quick. You sign up, get an activation code you can use on any of these devices. You click there, You click there. You click there. Boom. You're done. I finally did something right! Nice! Guys, take back your internet privacy today, and find out how you can get three months free by clicking link in the description. ExpressVPN.com/drew that's E-X-P-R-ES-S-V-P-N.com/drew. For three months free with the one-year package. Thank. No problem, buddy. Oh, uh Probably- Probably want to buy a lock for this door. Yeah, I probably should. Sorry guys, sometimes people just barge in like that. Um, anyway, guy, link in the description if you're interested in a VPN, definitely check that out. Thank you so much to ExpressVPN for sponsoring today's video. You know, this just makes me feel so much better about my internet privacy. There's so many scumbags out there, and leeches, lurkers, hackers, and straight-up jerks, so it's nice to finally have some peace of mind. 