There is one facet to the future of aviation 
fuel that I have not mentioned in this video. The   electric future. There are several small planes 
already in flying, powered by batteries. Their   ranges are severely limited, but a niche market 
could be developing for them in the near future.   This is a topic my friend, Sam from Wendover 
Productions, covers in detail in his video   “Why Electric Planes are Inevitably Coming”. 
You can watch that right now over on Nebula,   the streaming service Sam and I created together, 
along with over a hundred other of our YouTube   creator friends. On Nebula you can watch all 
my videos ad free and sponsorship free. You   can watch Original series like my Logistics of 
D-Day series or Wendovers fantastic Originals,   like The Very Good Trivia Show where you can 
see how much Sam and I actually hate each other.  “71 + 34, 71 + 34, 71 + 34...is 
105” “ah you didn’t get it right,   it was right at the timer, so incorrect” “Ah 
that’s bullshit Sam that’s bullshit” “I know”  Or you can watch something made by someone I 
actually like, like Neos' mesmerizing Original   called “The Unknown City”, with out of this 
world blender animations of a fictional city   being used for innovative data 
visualisation on the world refugee crisis.  You can sign up to Nebula directly, but thanks 
to our sponsor, you can get all of that for free,   when you sign up to CuriosityStream 
with the link in the description.   You can sign up for the insanely low price of 
just 14.79 a year, or just 2.99 a month. This   is by far the best way to support this channel and 
the content we make. CuriosityStream sponsorships   have allowed us to hire new animators, 
writers and more to continue upping our game,   and that’s really thanks to all of you signing 
up to watch their award winning documentaries.   Like this one called “A World Without Nasa”, a 2 
part series that explores some of the most world   changing technologies that NASA has introduced to 
the world. CuriosityStream is well worth the 14.79   price alone, which is 26% off the usual price 
of 19.99, but with your subscription you are   helping to support not just my channel, but over 
a hundred other channels that are part of Nebula.  A streaming service that we own and control, 
outside of the whims of the YouTube algorithm.   A sandbox for us to experiment with our craft 
with one off documentaries, longer form videos,   topics that weren’t formed around 
a catchy title and thumbnail,   and series that cover topics that get flagged in 
the YouTube algorithm, like my World War 2 series,   which will continue later this year with 
the Logistics of the Battle of Britain.  So please sign up and help independent 
educational creators and get some   excellent documentaries and videos as a reward.
If you are looking for something else to watch   right now, why not watch Real Science’s latest 
video on the insane biology of the Platypus, a   