BARON: It would seem we are at an impass. KNIGHT COMMANDER: Yes. I must escalate this conflict even further
by issuing you... a third warning. That will stop your plan! BARON: Please. My plan is as complicated as it is elegant
and it is very complicated. KNIGHT COMMANDER: Fool! You don’t know the power of this video’s
Sponsor, Skillshare! They have thousands of classes in writing,
design, business, and more. You know not what forces you deal with! BARON: You don’t know what you are dealing
with! It seems we must do battle again. This time with thinly veiled, ominous foreshadowing! KNIGHT COMMANDER: No. If the power of the Sponsorships are used
then their corruption will twist the universe into darkness. BARON: What was that about corruption? Sorry. I was too busy taking a bribe. All part of my plan you see. Wheels within wheels. KNIGHT COMMANDER: You cannot control the Sponsors. If you do that the seven seals will break
and he will come! The one stated in the prophecy! BARON: That is merely the first step. Once the seals break worlds will burn and
this will help us seize power... somehow. KNIGHT COMMANDER: Aren't you skipping a step? BARON: No. At least I think not. Those middle steps are in my notebook which
is in my desk somewhere. Ugh. I really need to take Thomas Frank’s Productivity
Masterclass and then maybe I’ll finally be able to finally figure out how to organize
that mess of a plan because right now I have no freaking clue what I was trying to accomplish
after loosing my flowchart. KNIGHT COMMANDER: Then we will stop you and
the prophecy. BARON: I’m afraid you are already too late
for TWA fans can visit skl.sh/twa15 to get two months of Skillshare for free with a subscription
being only $10 a month after that. Little do they suspect that the link is also
in the description below. KNIGHT COMMANDER: Are those guys part of your
plan? FREEDOM FIGHTERS: Freedom! Freedom!Freedom!Freedom!Freedom!Freedom!Freedom!Freedom! FREEDOM FIGHTER: Freedom! FREEDOM FIGHTERS: Freedom! Freedom!Freedom!Freedom!Freedom!Freedom!Freedom!Freedom! BARON: Guards?What was that? GUARD: Sorry, my Barron. We have bad news and good news. The bad news is that the rebels have stolen our sponsor. The good news is that while we were supposed to be guarding the sponsor we redesigned our helmets instead. 