Hello, there! Today's video is sponsored by Audible, the world's largest collection of audiobooks and audio entertainment. I'm so excited to be
partnering with Audible because I have been a huge fan of them and have been using them
for the last few years and it has literally changed my life! Can we add an echo to that? Changed my life! How'd that look? Come on, it was pretty awesome, right? All right, let's try another shot here. Let's try Helix which is gonna circle around
me and slowly widen out. So let's try this, I have myself selected. I'm just gonna hit start
and let it do all the work. And this is gonna be
an epic shot, trust me. Here, watch this. Now, with the huge selection
that Audible has available, you will never run out of stuff to keep you entertained,
educated, and informed. Now, one of the audiobooks
I cannot recommend enough, and literally it was life-changing for me, is a audiobook called "How Not to Die" by Dr. Michael Greger. Now, what I love about the audiobook is it's very, very informative and also entertaining and engaging. And it's less about hey,
you should be eating this and you shouldn't be eating that but it's more scientific-based evidence on how food affects our body. And it's common sense that
food affects your body 'cause we are what we eat, right? But everything made a whole lot more sense after I got through that audiobook. One of the examples is I
used to get sick a lot, nothing serious but colds
and fevers all the time, couple times a year. This is not an exaggeration, I haven't been really sick ever since and it's been almost two years. Is that a coincidence? Possibly. But trust me when I say this, when you get through that audiobook, you're gonna be like wow, I
learned some stuff. (laughs) And since they're sponsoring this video, you can get a 30-day free trial which includes any
audiobook of your choice as well as two Audible Originals. So be sure to hit that
link in the description, Audible.com/PotatoJet or
text PotatoJet to 500 500 and become part of the club. If you decide to stick around
after that 30-day free trial, you still get a free audiobook and two Audible Originals
every single month. The price of the audiobook
itself doesn't matter. So I've actually saved a lot
of money by being a member. And all the audiobooks
you get are yours to keep so even if you cancel Audible, you'll still have those to listen to. And I can't tell you how awesome it is to always have something to listen to, especially if you're commuting
or doing a road trip, or you're working out, there's
just always some information to be absorbed and I love that. So thanks again, Audible, for being a sponsor of this episode. And don't forget to check them
out, Audible.com/PotatoJet or text PotatoJet to 500 500. (cheers) 