wish. [electricity sparks and door knocking] Hello? - [friendly] Hello! Who's there? - It is I! Jonathan Wentworth the 8th. How did you get in my house? - I'm here to help. Help with what? - Your wish, of course! Uh... Okay! [triumphant music] Are you gonna say anything? Do you want to come in? I don't understand. Are you a genie? Genie?! Whoa! Whoa. Okay, I'm sorry! Do I look like a genie to you? I'm sorry! I didn't know that that was, like, offensive to ask. Have you seen the trailer for the new Aladdin? Oh. Yeah, you're right. That looks awful. [sighs] Thank you. Now, I'm here to grant your wishes. Cool, like a genie! Fuck you! Oh shit. I'm sorry! I'm sorry! Okay, look I was gonna grant you three wishes, but you're kind of pissing me off so you get one. One wish What? As long as it doesn't bring anyone back to life, and it doesn't interfere with anyone's free will, I will grant you one wish. What'll it be? Uh... I don't know. I'm kind of hungry. Can I just have something to eat? I'm glad you asked! I've got just the thing! Are you tired of spending hours in the supermarket every week, only to feel like you have no idea what you're doing in the kitchen? Well, it's time to say hello to Hello Fresh is a fantastic way to stay healthy in 2019. Hello fresh makes it super easy. They do all the planning shopping and prepping for you, so you've got more time to enjoy 2019, and a healthier you. They send seasonal easy-to-follow recipes and pre-measured ingredients to your door every single week, so you can enjoy cooking and sticking to your goals. All meals come together in just 30 minutes or less, they call for less than two pots and pans, and cleanup is minimal. We've been using Hello Fresh for a little while now and let me just say, I've really been enjoying the meals. The shake it up pork cutlets in particular we're delicious. They've got different plans you can choose from: classic, veggie, family, and you can change whenever you want depending on how your tastes change. So get out of the little rut you're in, get out of your comfort zone, and try some new delicious recipes. Their prices are great, too. Hello Fresh is now starting from $6.99 per serving. Hello Fresh is offering six free meals. That's two free meals in each of your first three boxes. Head on over to Hello Fresh.com, and enter promo code trulygreg60 for a total of $60 off. Thank you to Hello Fresh for sponsoring this video and thank you to you guys for checking it out. I love to see you guys supporting the people that support this channel. It makes what I do here a lot easier and a lot more sustainable. And makes more people want to sponsor me in the future. So thank you for checking out Hello Fresh. Okay... When do I... get it? Huh? The package, when will it show up? What if I told you... that it's been inside you all along? I'd say that's false. And gross. It'll show up in a few days. Okay. Thanks. Well, I guess it's time for me to disappear. [twinking magic sound] [silly upbeat music] 