Now there is one final app
that I do want to mention here, even though it is not
strictly a productivity app, but it is an app that
I've been using for years and it has definitely helped
me to expand my horizons and to keep learning on a daily
basis and that is Audible. Audible is the best place in the world to get your hands on audiobooks, which I listen to almost every single day. And Audible, again, is
the best place to get them because they have an unmatched library with all the best sellers,
tons of obscure titles, and basically anything you're gonna want. If you want biographies, they've got it. If you want sci-fi titles, they've got it. And if you want my
recommendation for this month, which is Bad Blood: Secrets and Lies In A Silicon Valley Startup,
they have that as well. And I'm recommending this audiobook because it's just probably the audiobook that I enjoyed listening to
the most in recent months. This is the story of Theranos, which was a startup in Silicon Valley that had a lot of controversy and fraud and tons of allegations
brought up against it. And I just found the
audiobook absolutely riveting. And it also spawned a bunch of other ones that I wanted to listen to as well. And the best part is that
you can start listening to this audiobook, or any other
audiobook of your choosing, by going over to audible.com/thomas or by texting Thomas to
500-500 on your phone. Doing that is gonna get
you a free 30-day trial of Audible service that comes with one
free audiobook download from their entire library, you can choose whatever you want, and it also gets you two Audible originals that you cannot get anywhere else. Then once you're a member,
you get a credit each month for one new audiobook from that library, plus two more Audible
originals each and every month and access to a huge library of workout and meditation programs. Plus if you decide to quit at any time, you get to keep your library
of audiobooks forever. They never go away. So once again, to get that
free 30-day trial of Audible, one free audiobook
download of your choosing and two Audible originals that
you can't get anywhere else, go over to audible.com/thomas or text Thomas to 500-500 on your phone. Big thanks, as always, to
Audible for sponsoring this video and being a big supporter of my channel and thank you as well for watching. 