Stop buyin razors. We've all done it and we all hate it, you go to the store, which let's be honest is already bad enough, but then you get there and you're bombarded by all these options How many blades do I want? Which brand is the best? And why are they all 17 dollars? And ladies don't even get me started on why your razors are more expensive for absolutely no reason. Don't do it to yourself anymore Sign up for Dollar Shave Club! Amanda and I have been using Dollar Shave Club for like two years And we love and if she didn't just leave me a few minutes ago, she'd tell you the same thing. The blades are great They're super affordable and they come to your mailbox every single month So if you guys want to get an awesome product and help support my channel in the process, go to dollarshaveclub.com/drew or click the link in the description and for just 5 bucks you're gonna get the shit shower shave Kit delivered straight to your door. What's great about this box is that it's not just a razor, which for five bucks is cheaper than anything you're gonna find in a store anyway But you also get some one wipe charlie's, which will keep you a little butt nice and fresh, no matter what comes out of it Side note: anyone that knows me, knows I love to wipe my ass. That's why I made this vine like three years ago "Those are in my fanny pack" "Hi, can I get some baby wipes this toilet paper's too hard and dry for my little butt!" That wasn't even a character that's probably the realest I've ever been on camera. In addition to that you also get some lavender scented body cleanser Which will keep you smelling like a candle all day long, and Dr. Shit- Doctor Shit. Dr. Carver's easy shave butter, which will help give you the gentlest shave You've ever had in your life and to be honest it tastes delicious. Oh wait hold on. What's that? Oh don't tell people to eat the butter? got it Hey guys, you're gonna want to not eat that butter but you can shave with it And that's awesome. So again if you want to get all that for just 5 bucks With free shipping and no long-term commitment go to dollarshaveclub.com/drew or click the link in the description Thank you so much to Dollar Shave Club for sponsoring today's video and helping me pay off my ed fluence debt 