But before we hit the
road, like I said earlier, this video is sponsored by: Best Western Hotels & Resorts, and let me tell you why
we love Best Western: first of all, today's Best
Western offers exceptional value in their hotels. Every employee that we have met inside of this Best Western
has been incredibly kind and had great service. From the front desk
people, to the restaurant when we went and ate
breakfast this morning. We are all checked in. We even got, the world's largest cookie. Ha ha ha. Room #236, okay. Some of the hotels are themed based off the locations that they're in: this Albuquerque one feels just like a New Mexico property, which
really makes me feel at home: that somebody that lived in Albuquerque for three and a half years. Look inside the elevator even. Fancy, wooden panel doors,
this is a nice touch! So whether you're just visiting, or you're someone that's from New Mexico, you can't
help but just get that New Mexico spirit, just by walking in the front door of this hotel. And also, Lincoln and I came
in for a very fast trip, so our trip is at seven
in the morning tomorrow, and so we want to be able
to get some good sleep, and the Best Western beds
are super comfortable, and two important things to me: they have free WIFI, and they
have breakfast available. That's free at most of the Best Westerns. And also this: Best Western Rewards: they have an award-winning loyalty program that's free to join
and if you are a member of Best Western Rewards,
if you go onto the website, there's going to be exclusive low-pricing for Best Western Rewards Members. So you can be guaranteed
that you're going to be getting the best price at Best Western when you're a Best Western Rewards Member. And pretty much year-round they have incredible perks and great promotions that can get you even more points for when you stay at Best Western Hotels. So make sure you register
for the Best Western Rewards, I'll put a link in the
description so you can do that and then go to BestWestern.com
and set up your next trip, you're going to get the
lowest prices guaranteed, from their website. It's the little touches at this hotel that I really appreciate. Like I have never seen a better shrine to a fire extinguisher ever. Is that not fancy? 