Squarespace, here's my impression of you. Hey Drew? Everything sponsored by Squarespace. I bet you don't even use Squarespace! Well you're wrong. Last month, I use Squarespace to make my beautiful merch website, And it was so easy to use that this month when I had the idea to make a parody website, For Edfluence make, add a parody section of that onto my website I didn't even hesitate because I knew would be so easy and it was. The thing I've learned about having a website is that it's Kind of an ongoing process, You don't just make it and then release it, and then you're done, There's things you're gonna want to add and customize, And especially if you're managing an online store, Because you need to monitor, your inventory levels, your orders, your revenue, all of that, And Squarespace made it super easy to do that. One thing I didn't even know about when first started using them was that they're integrated with shipstation It automatically takes all the orders you have from your shop, puts them into shipstation, Generates shipping labels, shows you how much everything's gonna cost so you can get the most efficient use of your money And that was super important for me because I was - I shipped everything myself, I packed and shipped everything, and so being able to compare all the costs and manage it all in one place was like super helpful. Now, maybe you're not looking to create an online store. You just need like a nice landing page for you or your business Squarespace is perfect for that too They have hundreds of beautiful designer templates to choose from for you to achieve any look that you may be imagining in your head It's also so quick and easy to purchase a domain if you already have a domain It's simple to transfer to Squarespace so you can manage your entire Online presence all in one place head over to Squarespace dot com for your free trial and when you're ready to launch go to Squarespace dot com slash drew for 10% off your first purchase. Thank you so much 