Hey guys today's video is
brought to you by Skillshare. If you don't know what Skillshare is, it's basically like going to college, except it's way cheaper, it's all online, and you don't get invited
to any frat parties. Actually, when I went to college I didn't get invited to
any frat parties either, so they're actually very similar. For less than 10 bucks a month you get unlimited access to
thousands of online classes. And they're about so
many different topics. Filmmaking, art, graphic
design, skateboarding. No matter what you're
interested in getting better at, Skillshare is going to
have a class for you. Specifically for me, I'm trying to learn more, like, visual editing with After Effects, but every time I go in After Effects I feel like I'm trying
to read another language. Like it's just, it's so goddamn confusing. So it was like, let me check Skillshare. Maybe they'll have a couple of classes. I searched "After Effects." They have 698 classes on After Effects and I'm going to watch
every single one of them. And I know what you're thinking, "Drew, $10 a month, where do I sign?" But hold up, I got a even
better offer for you. Okay? Cause the first thousand people, you could be one of them, to use my code in the description gets their first two
months for just 99 cents! That's, it costs less than if you were to buy something
that costed more than that. But maybe you're still not sold. Maybe you're thinking, "Drew, you know that sounds nice and all, but I don't really want
to learn how to edit, or how to do photography or cook. The only thing I'm really interested in learning more about is how
to forge medieval weapons out of steel. And surely they don't
have a bunch of classes on blacksmithing." Well you're wrong. Because my boy Ron Payne hooked it up with over an hour's worth
of blacksmithing tutorials. Yeah. You can learn
anything on this website. So again, if you're
interested, click my link in the description for
your first two months of unlimited access for only 99 cents. Thank you so much to Skillshare for
sponsoring today's video. 