But first I should say something about my kind sponsors. Yes, the Great Courses Plus. The Great Courses Plus is a huge website. You can visit it and there you can see on it loads and loads of lecture courses. I found a very interesting one for instance that's on palaeontology. Now I have a degree in archaeology and a lot of people go: 'Oh wow, archaeology. I find that really interesting, so tell me about the stegosaurus then.' Ah, no, that's palaeontology. I did archaeology which is digging up the remains of the human past. But anyway, I suppose it's related and we all like dinosaurs, don't we? Only this course is a bit more serious. It's not all about you know the famous stuff like the brontosaurus and (... did the brontosaurus even exist?) and the stegosaurus and the triceratops and the tyrannosaurus rex and all those ones. Instead, it's a bit more academic (a bit more interesting I think for it) in that it looks about how fossils are formed, how they are discovered and how they are interpreted and all that sort of thing. It goes through all the important ages, geological ages, many of which precede the tyrannosaurus rex by quite a lot of millions of years. Anyway, I'm going to be looking at that one. But you, of course, can pick from loads and loads of courses. And for one month you can do so absolutely for free if you type in this address, which is appearing on your screen now. www.TheGreatCoursesPlus.com/Lindybeige then that will take you to an offer. It's actually much easier by the way to click on the link which I'll put in the description so short click ... Short link and you just click on it and voom you're there. Much easier. And you will find that you can get one free month looking at any of the courses you care to have a look at. Typically there are about 24 lectures in a course, and each one is about half an hour long, so it's 12 hours per course of facts. And, if you don't like it, at the end of the month you can decide it's not for you, all you have to do is is cancel and then you won't owe a bean. So there you go. Why not go to the Great Courses Plus, give them a look and ... I hope you like it. 