and then of course the most important and, in my opinion, easiest thing to do when you're trying to make a living on YouTube is brand deals. There's nothing wrong with a sponsored post I mean like wouldn't it be funny and I'm just throwing this out there wouldn't it be hilarious if like let's say This video was sponsored right? Like you didn't think it was but now all of a sudden you're thinking. Maybe it is that's because It is Man, I want to go outside and enjoy this beautiful weather, but I have too much online shopping to do. Hi. I'm the moon Oh my god, you scared the crap out of me. I'm the moon. Wait, isn't it like 2 p.m Hey, I don't work for you. Okay, I can be here if I want. All right, I'm sorry Now if you'll excuse me, I'm trying to find coupons for my online purchase Problem is none of them work there either expired or already used or for first time customers only. It sucks I've been copying and pasting these codes for six days I'm so hungry. I just wish there was some sort of free browser extension I could download that would do this for me. I said, "I just wi-" I heard you; I just don't know what you're talking about. Oh, I Thought you were gonna tell me about honey the thing I'm advertising. I don't have a computer I guess I just assumed- I'm the moon. You're right. I don't know what I was thinking It's fine though. I'll just do it myself. Hi I'm the guy who just talked to the moon and I'm here to tell you guys about honey a free thing You should download right now If you're like me and you buy everything online because you don't like to leave your house But you also like to save money then listen up. Honey is a 100% free extension You can download on whatever browser you're using Google Chrome, Firefox Safari I'm not even gonna say Internet Explorer because I know nobody's using that. Want to spontaneously buy a cool gift for your girlfriend or your dad or your Lizard? As soon as you click that checkout button, honey pops up to remind you guys. I got this. Don't worry about it And then boom coupon. I got down to thinking the other day You know what fall and winter is coming up and I don't really have a lot of long-sleeved shirts I should go on the Gap website and maybe see like if they have any cool sweaters or whatever So I did and I go to checkout and guess what? Six dollars, I didn't even have to do anything it did it for me There's no reason not to have this guy, seriously. Honey works on over 30,000 websites and it's free and it always will be so please go to joinhoney.com/drew or click the link in the description. Go there, and tell them that it was me Sent you. You don't have to because it will do that automatically if you just click on the link, but yeah, thank you guys So much and back to you drew. Did you do that ad read over there? So you wouldn't have to set up the green screen. Yeah, pretty much. Yeah, I figured guys Thank you so much for watching today's video and thank you again to honey for sponsoring it again link in the description if you want To download it it's 100% free It's probably the coolest thing that I've ever gotten to sponsor on this channel and I'm just gonna throw this out there that Hypothetically if you were someone who wanted to I don't know buy something from my merch shop and you had honey installed before you did There may or may not be a 20% off coupo that's Automatically added to your order that I'm not gonna tell you what it is because you have to install honey if you want to get it. So, I'm just throwing that out there as a hypothetical thing that is 100% true and not hypothetical at all 