If you are not on the list or you just don't
like PUBG or Battle Royale there are still very solids options like World of Tanks. World of Tanks and World of Warships are a
couple of games that I have been meaning to add to my battery of low-end test more often
for several reasons. They have been around for a long time and
yet they continue evolving, they have a very active community, they are free to play, and
they are tremendously low end friendly. During past Gamescom, I attended a talk from
Wargaming developer's about how they are implementing new technologies to increase the capabilities
of their games but they mentioned how inside the company they keep a priority of still
keeping the game light on the lowest settings for entry players. Given how I have had to abandon a lot of my
favourite low-end friendly examples like Overwatch, Fortnite or CSGO for computers on this level
since they have bloated on recent updates with clear impacts in performance I appreciate
that a bigger studio still keeps in mind low-end compatibility as the game moves forward. Case in point World of Tanks on full resolution
and minimum settings works absolutely fantastic on the Pocket 2, to the point that is likely
one of the best recommendations to play on a device like this. And even better for me, World of Tanks actually
agreed to sponsor this video. Wow, talk about a perfect fit. I am still not sure how that happened. Everything I have said so far is my own opinion
of the game, not part of the sponsor read, but hopefully if I have convinced you to give
it a try and also support the channel you can use the link in the description or the code
TANKTASTIC to get 7 premium days, 500 Gold and a Premium soviet tank if you create a new
account. This is a strategic action game inspired by
history with historical tanks from 11 different nations on large epic battles on maps inspired
by real locations. Look, if you want to deep game to get lost
into that will very likely run in any PC... look no further. Just, use the link in the description to support
the channel. 