And that is something I
of course would never do on this channel is intersperse
subtle product advertisement into a totally unrelated comedy video. Right? Mr. Square? - Dance right through. - Yeah. I knew you'd have my back. - Hey, that reminds me. I was making a website with
Squarespace the other day. - How did that remind you? - And it was so simple and intuitive. I just thought, man, if I could do this, anybody could do this. For sure. Agreed. But I -- - Look they've got hundreds
of beautiful designer templates to choose from
that make getting started so easy. - Wait. How are you doing that? The mouse is over here. - And this is coming from someone who doesn't know the
first thing about web design. I'm a freaking alien from space after all. - Yeah I found you on the moon. - Right. You found me on the moon. They don't got websites in space. - Yes, that is true. But what does this have to do-- - With Squarespace's 24/7
award-winning customer support. I'm glad you asked. - I didn't. - I guess what I'm getting
at here is it doesn't matter if you're an artist trying
to showcase your portfolio a woodworker, trying to set
up an intuitive online store even a cute little alien
just trying to make a name for himself in the worldwide web. Everyone can benefit
from having a website. - Now that I can agree with. Especially if they go to
squarespace.com/true, to get 10% off their first purchase
of a website or domain. Right Mr. Square? - Right I mean, I use Danny's
code when I made my website but yours is good too. - You what? - I didn't think it mattered. You guys are the same person, aren't you? - No we're not. This is why we're going on tour. Get out. - Okay. Jeez, someone's sensitive. - Thank you so much to Squarespace for sponsoring
today's video guys. Remember when you sign up to use my code because it's the best code. - As many of you know
I've used Squarespace multiple times in the past every time I've had to make
a website, whether it was for my merge or just an extra
gag that I wanted to put into a video, Squarespace
has never let me down. Because I can trust Squarespace
because they don't step up and he's anyway, what was I saying before? Oh yeah. 