But now it's time to talk about our sponsor, Brawl Stars. Brawl Stars is a fun and exciting, action-packed mobile game from the creators of Clash of Clans, with a variety of gameplay modes, including battle royale, boss battles, soccer, and 3v3 squad battles. As you level up, there's a bunch of different fighters or brawlers, as they're called in the game, that you can unlock and each of them have different moves and attributes. You can do matchmaking, so you can play with random strangers online and never run out of people to play with. But, you can also set up private games, so you can play with your friends. It's a really fun game, and it's really cute. I really like games with animation styles like this. It's very pretty, very visually-aesthetically pleasing. You guys know I have a complicated relationship with mobile game ads. Most of them are trash, which is why when Brawl Stars reached out to sponsor this video, I had to accept. I had to prove that making a good ad for a mobile game wasn't hard. We don't have to lie and say things like,"This game will make you legally skilled," even though it might. So, here's some concepts I came up with for some good ads for Brawl Stars. Only kids born after 1920 will get this game. Now, I think we can all agree that while not everyone born after 1920 will get this game, you at least have to have an understanding of electricity's existence and phones to understand this game. So, I think being born after 1920 is a good place to start. This game is legally legal. There's nothing illegal about this game. Nothing at all. This? This one is more of a proof of concept. I—Actually, I'm not sure about this one. Colt just shot you and took all your gems. Shoot him or divorce? Er, wait, that doesn't make any sense. Um.. How about shoot him, or go collect some more gems, go on to win the game, and unlock another one of Brawl Star's fun and zany characters? Yeah, that's better. This is one of the apps on my phone. Guys, I'm not Selena Gomez, and this isn't the only app on my phone. But, it is one of the apps on my phone, and I do play it quite frequently. Thank you to Brawl Stars for sponsoring this video, and thank you to you guys for checking out Brawl Stars. I know I say this a lot, but when you guys check out the people who sponsor these videos, that helps me out a lot and makes it a lot easier for me to get sponsors in the future. So thank you. Alright, Greg, 