But my favorite part of
the video was the ad read, which I'm now realizing
I haven't done yet. Big hugs in a second guys. Doing an ad read. Doing an ad read. Big hugs in one second,
I'm doing an ad read. And the reason I'm doing an ad read is because today's video
is sponsored by Skillshare. We learned a lot today about
our Lord and savior Vin Diesel, but if you're like me and you have an unquenchable thirst for knowledge and you love to learn new things, you're going to want to
sign up for Skillshare. Skillshare has thousands of online classes in literally any area of
expertise you can think of. The classes I tend to use the most tend to relate to filmmaking
and video editing, graphic design because I
suck at graphic design. And even as a somewhat
veteran guitar player, I actually found their
guitar tutorials very useful. For example, I finally
learned how to properly hold this thing, which is like this. But it's not just
extracurricular skills like that. You can also learn more practical things like which foods are
causing you to gain weight, how to give the perfect foot
massage, how to meditate. And I know exactly what
you're thinking right now. Drew, that sounds great and all, but there's no way in hell
that they have an entire class devoted to the one thing that I need, which is learning how to design a recycling aquaculture
system for fish farms. And guess what, bitch? You're wrong because they do. You can get unlimited access to their entire online video library for less than $10 a month
with an annual subscription. You can also get your
first two months free If you go to skl.sh/drewgooden2 or just click the link in the description because that's a lot easier. This offer is only available to the first thousand people
who sign up using this link. So if you want to get a leg up on all the other fish farmers out there you're not gonna wanna wait. Thank you so much to Skillshare for sponsoring today's video. Remember guys, link in the description if you are interested in signing up. 