Ethan: I wanna thank our sponsor: Lootcrate Ethan: ...for helping to support our addiction to Chinese beauty products Ethan: And for shortening my life-span by 5 years. Ethan: Let's have a look what's in this Lootcrate's month. Ethan: Wait, Lootcrate's month of this- Ethan: Did I have a stroke? Ethan: Let's see what's in this month's Lootcrate. Ethan: The theme of this month's Lootcrate is speed. Ethan: Tonk Starks! Ethan: I could wear this, but I think my beautiful yellow body is way more interesting. Hila: Way better. Ethan: So I'll just put this aside for now. Ethan: First of all, Lootcrate, you know this is the gold episode. Ethan: Why are you sending us silver figurines? Hila: What's with the silver? Ethan: Guys, come on, get on the ball. Ethan: That being said, The Flash, pretty dope. Ethan: Next item is this, uh, Battlestar Galactica. Ethan: These are the villains from that show Ethan: I love that show, everybody loves that show. Ethan: They were responsible for creating these Chinese beauty products. Ethan: ...and shipping them around the galaxy. Ethan: No laughter? Ethan: Gone in 60 seconds: dope. Ethan: Fuckin' hood comes up, what's going on in there? Ethan: There's no engine. Ethan: But somehow it drives. Do the doors open? Hila: Nah Ethan: Get me some pliers dude, I want these doors to open. Ethan: Batman keychain. I love Batman. Ethan: Batman has always been my favourite superhero Ethan: Because he's just a dude! Ethan: That's what's so badass, he's just a fucking guy that fights Superman, somehow. Ethan: He's such a badass, he's just a man. Hila: You probably wished that he was chubby too. Ethan: You can still be cool and chubby, Hila. Ethan: What are you trying to say? Hila: I didn't say anything! Ethan: Can I just make it through one episode without Hila trying to humiliate me? Ethan: You got a pen, you got your schmutz. Ethan: This was a really cool box. This was speed. Ethan: Now, if you guys want next month's Lootcrate Ethan: The theme is horror because of 'spooktober' coming up next month. Ethan: And you can get 10% off by visiting the link in the description: Ethan: And type 'h3h3' at checkout for a coupon code. Ethan: 10% off! Hila: Nice. Ethan: Horror, it's gonna be a fucking good one, guys. 