And one personal project that you should probably
consider taking on if you haven't done so already is building a professional
online presence. If you want to stand
out from the competition to get competitive jobs or you want to build
connections in your industry and establish yourself as an expert, building a website for yourself, where you can show off your portfolio and tell people how to contact
you, is a great first step. And the first step to doing that is securing your professional domain name, like mine, which is thomasjfrank.com. And if you'll notice, I
had to put a J in my URL because I was not able
to get thomasfrank.com, since someone else got it far before I was ever
even on the internet. And that's the thing about domain names. Someone else could get yours before you get the chance to get it and if they don't let it relinquish, then you're kind of out of luck. So get your professional domain name before someone else grabs it and to get it, you should
go over to hover.com. Hover is the best place on the internet to get your hands on domain names, not least of which because
they have the most streamlined, hassle-free checkout process
that I have ever seen. There are no upsells, no annoying pop-ups. You just pick the domain
you want and you buy it. And they have over 400 extensions as well, so you can get your .coms,
your .mes, your .cos, which are I think are really
good for professional presence, but they also have lots of fun ones, like .limo, .ninja, and .lol. Plus, once you have your domain, they have some very useful tools for connecting it to
other useful web services, like an email tool, so you can get a professional-looking
email, like mine, which is thomas@collegeinfogeek.com. Little bit more professional than a Gmail. And they also have a Connect feature, which can help you connect your
domain to website builders, like Squarespace and Shopify. And the best part is if you go
over to hover.com/thomasfrank and buy your domain through that link, you're gonna get 10% off
of your first purchase and help to support my channel. Big thanks to Hover as always
for sponsoring this video 