Well guys, now that it's the end of the video, it's time for me to do my ad read for Squarespace. So here it goes just a regular old ad read. I'm gonna do it right now. Help! Help! Oh! Hey guys, I didn't see you there. I don't really remember what happened. All I know is I was just washing my hands when I got sucked down the drain and ended up here totally dry in different clothes. I don't really know what happened. But I think the hacker might be behind this. *Evil laugh* Oh no, guys, I think that might be the hacker. Hey, let me go! Hacker: Oh hoho I'm not gonna let you go H: Unless you solve these riddles. Oh you just wa- you just want you just want me to answer a few riddles? H: Um.. H: Yeah? What'd you mean? I don't know. It just seems like you kind of put a lot of work into getting me here. You defied the laws of physics just to get me through those pipes, and you're just gonna let me go that easily if I just solve a couple riddles? H: Oh, is that not what bad guys do? Yeah, I guess I mean if you say so dude. H: Hahahaha! All right. Here it goes H: If you want to show off your online business, sell products or make an online portfolio or any other online project, H: What is the best all-in-one platform to get the job done? Squarespace. H: You can do everything from picking out a domain to designing the perfect website by choosing from one of their beautiful designer templates. Yeah. Squarespace H: What did you say? Are you just doing an ad read for Squarespace? H: And get awesome 24/7 customer service and you can even set up your own online store in just a minute! Okay, did Squarespace like hire you to kidnap me and tell me about all their features? That seems like way more work than it needed to be. H:No Dude, I've already used Squarespace before! And I've heard like every other YouTuber talk about it! I don't need to hear about the features. H: Oh, well, well, well you've solved it but now for the next riddle. H: Saw off your legs. 
That's not a riddle. H: Too bad dude, that's the only way you're getting out of those chains H: So start sawing.
You didn't even chain me by m!y legs. You chained me by my hands I don't know what to tell you man. H: Here you go! This is a hammer.
 H: Jesus - this is all you do is complain? H: I'm giving you, I'm giving you an out. I kidnapped you and I'm gonna let you out just... All you have to do is saw off your legs. You don't need those Well, alright! 