Hi, this is Kate from MinuteEarth. Animals come in all different sizes, but usually,
over evolutionary time, each type of animal stays roughly the same size. Every once in awhile, though, something crazy
happens that allows an animal to get truly gigantic. Take insects and other arthropods, which have
tiny bodies in part because they breathe by sponging up air through their exoskeletons,
and the available oxygen can only diffuse so far before getting used up - if they had
bigger bodies, oxygen wouldn’t reach far enough inside. But about 300 million years ago, Earth’s
atmospheric oxygen levels spiked. With more oxygen in the air, arthropods’
bodies could grow way bigger, leading to mega-bugs like a dragonfly the size of an eagle and
a millepede the size of a two-person kayak. Dinosaurs, on the other hand, got pretty darned
big without any outside help – but at some point they hit a limit due to the so-called
square cube law: body strength is based on the cross-sectional area of bones and muscles,
but weight is based on volume. And just like doubling the height of a cube
causes its cross-sectional area to get four times larger but its volume to get eight times
larger, when an animal gets bigger, it does get stronger but it gets waaaay heavier. Fossil evidence suggests that dinos were nearing
the size at which they could no longer lug around their own bodies when they stumbled
upon an evolutionary breakthrough: a system of air pockets and air sacs throughout their
skeletons that allowed them to get bigger without getting heavier - and have incredibly
long - but light - necks, which granted them access to a huge bounty of leaves. Eventually, though, a group of land animals
got around the square-cube problem altogether by climbing back into the water, which buoyed
their weight. And since they took their lungs with them
into the water, they could breathe oxygen-rich air, rather than being stuck with oxygen-poor
water, allowing these mammals to grow almost twice as big as the biggest fish. But these giant creatures just didn’t have
enough food to get any giant-er than that. Then, a few million years ago, changing ocean
currents brought tons of nutrients up from the depths, which fueled huge, localized phytoplankton
blooms, which in turn attracted enormous concentrations of scrumptious zooplankton. With this new krillion calorie diet, together
with their air-breathing lungs and water-supported bodies, blue whales quickly tripled in size
to become not just gigantic but truly the largest animals to have ever lived. And THAT is certainly something to spout about. 