In the immensely popular movie Jurassic Park, there’s
the famous scene where the giant T-Rex is attacking a jeep during a thunder storm. As it attacks, Dr. Alan Grant, a self-respecting
paleontologist, yells, “Don’t move! He can’t see you, if you don’t move.” Here’s the thing - that's wrong. (If that comes as a blow, you're definitely
not going to want to learn the shocking truth about Velociraptors we’ll get into in the
Bonus Facts in a bit.) The Tyrannous Rex not only could see just
fine, whether the object was moving or non-moving (which helps one not run into a huge number
of things that exist in the world), there's also quite a bit of evidence that the T-Rex’s
sight was extremely good, very possibly better than modern-day hawks and eagles. This is perhaps unsurprising considering that
birds are coelurosauri theropods, which is the same sub-group that the Tyrannosaurus
belongs to. In fact, one of the T-rex’s closest living
relatives is the chicken… Going back to the film, this non-moving "fact"
from the hit 1993 movie inspired a good deal of research into the subject after. Professor Kent Stevens at the University of
Oregon began the project DinoMorph in 1993. His goal was to develop “a means to create
scientifically useful yet simplified digital models of dinosaur skeletons.” Using digital technology, he wanted to recreate
tangible visualizations of extinct animals, including the T-Rex. After speaking at a conference in Toronto
in June 1993 (the movie was released in the US on June 11, 1993), he paid a visit to the
Royal Ontario Museum where he met with North America’s leading paleoartist, Garfield
Minott. He was working on a life-size “reconstruction”
of a Tyrannosaurus Rex and provided Stevens with life-like head sculptures of seven different
theropods (bipedal and primarily carnivorous dinosaurs), including a T-Rex and Velociraptor. Using these models, a laser pointer, a glass
plate, and taxidermic glass eyeballs, Stevens performed experiments to determine the visual
field, depth perception, and binocular range (the area that can be viewed at the same time
by both eyes) of these dinosaurs. He published the results in 2006. Performing a test called “inverse perimetry,”
Stevens evaluated how well a T-Rex would be able to see objects at various elevations
and shapes. To quote him, the wider an animal’s binocular
range is, “the better its depth perception and capacity to distinguish objects--even
those that are motionless or camouflaged.” Stevens determined that a T-Rex’s binocular
range was 55 degrees, which is wider than even hawks. Stevens continued the research with other
theropod dinosaurs and determined that most theropods had binocular ranges at least similar
to modern raptorial birds (aka “birds of prey”). Another recent discovery also confirmed that
vision was an important sense for the T-Rex, as scientists determined that the T-Rex’s
snout over time gradually grew longer, narrower, cheek bones dipped more inward, and their
eyeballs grew bigger. While structurally the T-Rex’s head and
eyes seem primed for great vision, the question remained- how good were their eyes really? For that, Stevens took the known optics of
distant relatives of the T-Rex, including the eagle, chicken, and crocodile, and plugged
them into the larger T-Rex eyeball. He was trying to determine visual acuity (clearness
of vision) and the greatest distance an object can be seen that still remained distinct. According to his findings, while admitting
that these were best-case scenario determinations, the T-Rex may well have had visual clarity
up to 13 times better than a modern human. For reference, an eagle has about 3.6 times
the visual clarity of a person. Additionally, it was determined that a T-Rex’s
vision allowed an object to remain relatively clear up to six kilometers away. For humans, it's only about 1.6 kilometers
for the same clarity. As Stevens put it, “With the size of its
eyeballs, (the T-Rex) couldn't help but have excellent vision." Of course, in the movie (and to a greater
and more detailed extent in the book), it is stated that in order to bring these dinosaurs
back to life, the scientists needed more DNA to fill the “gaps”. In the book, they decided to splice dino DNA
with bird, lizard, and frog DNA. In the movie, they only use frog DNA to hammer
home the plot device that certain species of frogs can change sex when there is significantly
less of one sex in the wild. So given this, it may be that the dinosaurs
in the movie are more frog than actual historic dinosaurs. So, if that’s the case, while a bit of a
stretch, the question that can be asked is, "Was the statement made by Dr. Grant in the
movie actually more about a frog’s vision than a T-Rex’s?" Digging a tad deeper, this quote from the
movie by Dr. Grant gives us a clue to what species of frog they may have used: “They
mutated the dinosaur genetic code and blended it with that of a frog's. Now, some West African frogs have been known
to spontaneously change sex from male to female in a single sex environment.” The most common West African frog that has
a tendency to change gender is the African reed frog. These frogs see quite on par with other species
of frogs with their horizontal pupils, though they cannot see in the red spectrum. Yes, it is documented that frogs have a hard
time seeing prey that doesn’t move, but not significantly so, such that they'd be
blind to them. Plus, humans (and really, all other prey)
do move even when they think they are standing still- breathing, trembling, involuntary jerks,
this is all movement. Additionally, as Kent Stevens said in response
to this moving myth question, "If you're sweating in fear one inch from the nostrils of the
T. Rex, it would figure out you were there anyway." Besides great vision, the T-Rex also had a
great sense of smell (and had good hearing). In fact, their large olfactory bulbs and nerves
relative to their brain size indicates they may have had a sense of smell about equivalent
to modern vultures, which are able to smell dead things from as far away as a couple kilometers. So whether scavenging or hunting, the T-Rex
was good at finding things to eat. That said, there is some debate as to just
how fast they were, with most scientists today thinking they had only a max speed of about
17-25 mph. In the film itself, the character of John
Hammond states, “Well, we clocked the T-rex at 32 mph”. Even at that speed, it would have made the
jeep chase scene quite a bit less dramatic than what was depicted. Speaking of learning things to help you spot
errors in films and thereby making you look 
smart to all your friends, Brilliant!!! Bonus Fact:
If you thought that Velociraptors were slightly bigger than a human; reptilian looking; hunted
in packs; were found in what is now the United States; were ridiculously intelligent, and
had a thing for Chris Pratt, Well, literally none of that is true, except the last one… Who doesn’t love Star Lord? In truth, velociraptors were actually only
about the size of a domesticated Turkey, being only about 3 feet tall and 6 feet long, with
most of the length coming from the tail and weighing in at around 20-30 pounds full grown. More than that, they also looked somewhat
like a Turkey as well, but with a long tail obviously. It turns out, Velociraptors were very similar
to birds in a lot of ways. They had hollow bones, feathers, built nests
for their eggs, and are thought to have behaved very similar to birds. As Mark Norell, curator of fossil reptiles,
amphibians, and birds at the American Museum of Natural History, stated, “The more that
we learn about these animals the more we find that there is basically no difference between
birds and their closely related dinosaur ancestors like Velociraptor. Both have wishbones; brooded their nests;
possess hollow bones; and were covered in feathers. If animals like Velociraptor were alive today,
our first impression would be that they were just very unusual looking birds." More than that, it is generally thought that
Velociraptors were solitary creatures, rather than hunting in packs as depicted in the films. Next up, the Velociraptors were not found
in the United States, as the films suggested: where the paleontologists in the film dug
up the Velociraptor skeleton in Montana. In fact, they are typically found in Central
Asia around Mongolia. Were they intelligent? Well, for a dinosaur, it is thought they were
somewhat intelligent due to their brain size relative to body size, but it’s not thought
they were particular intelligent overall, and certainly not "smarter than dolphins,
whales, and some primates" that Dr. Alan Grant in Jurassic Park III suggests. So what were they thinking in Jurassic Park? Well basically, they modeled what they called
the "Velociraptor" in the movie after the Deinonychus. The Deinonychus were also raptors, but were
significantly bigger than the Velociraptors, coming in at about 12 feet long, about 6 feet
tall, and weighing about 150 pounds full grown. Pretty much picture the "Velociraptor" in
Jurassic Park and you get a good idea of what the Deinonychus were thought to have looked
like (although likely with feathers.) The Deinonychus also were thought to have
occasionally hunted in packs to bring down larger prey and were thought to have been
very fast. Their habitat was in the forests of North
America. Now on the intelligence bit, they too weren't
really thought to have been very intelligent relative to dolphins, primates, and the like. Although, clearly they were at least smart
enough to work together to bring down larger prey when the need arose. As to why the Velociraptor name was used even
though the creatures were loosely based on deinonychus, according to Michael Crichton,
this was simply because the velociraptor name was, to quote, “more dramatic”. 