In honor of the 50th anniversary of the moon
landing, this exploration was made possible by Audible. When President Kennedy met Soviet Premier
Khrushchev in Vienna in June of 1961, some items on the agenda were clear: Loas, Cuba,
Berlin and the threat of war there. But the conversation quickly veered off course. When Vice President Nixon had met Khrushchev
in 1959, two years earlier, he had become ensnared into an ideological debate about
the relative merits of capitalism versus socialism: “There are some instances where you may
be ahead of us. For example, in the development of the thrust
of your rockets, for the investigation of outer space. There may be some instances, for example color
television, where we’re ahead of you. There may be some instances, for example color
television, where we’re ahead of you. But in order for both of us..In order”
“No no no, in rockets we’ve passed you by, and in technology” Now, two years later, President Kennedy fell
into the same trap with Khrushchev, even against warnings from his advisors not to do so (7,494). On the first day of their summit, Kennedy
lectured Khrushchev about supporting communist minorities in Asia, while a bellicose Khrushchev
yelled about American use of the word ‘miscalculation’: “that damned word, miscalculation! You ought to take that word and bury it in
cold storage and never use it again! I’m sick of it!” (7,497) The summit was slowly becoming a disaster. In the rubble of crumbled relations, the two
leaders had lunch. Memos of the mealtime conversation describe
it as “social in nature” (8). When the conversation turned to space, Kennedy
threw out what seemed a far-fetched idea: instead of racing- the USA, the Soviet Union,
why not go to the moon together? “No” replied Khrushchev, likely quite
terse. Then the Soviet Premier hesitated: “All
right, why not?” (8;5,166) Let’s backtrack a few years to get the full
picture. First, I have to tell you about the pressure
on on the USA and therefore on President Kennedy. By the time the president offered a joint
venture to the moon to the Soviet Premier, the Soviets had actually already won the space
race, twice. Those are the beeps of Sputnik, the first
artificial satellite in earth’s orbit. Its launch by the Soviet Union on October
4th, 1957 was heralded as one of the pivotal moments in human history, the inauguration
of the ‘space age’. Scientists were rejoicing, said Eric Sevareid
of CBS, “that the nascent, god-like instinct of homo sapiens has driven him from his primordial
mud to break, at last, the bound of his earth,” (2,172). Hannah Arendt, philosopher and political theorist,
opined that the launch was the most important event in human history, not even second “to
the splitting of the atom,” (1,200). A French daily added: "Myth has become reality:
Earth's gravity conquered". The Soviets had won the race to space. But not everyone was celebrating. The launch of Sputnik was clear evidence to
many that the United States was scientifically behind. Even if Sputnik was just a metal ball with
a battery broadcasting a radio signal, it was 180 pounds of so-called Soviet “red
moon” passing over the United States twice a day. It was seen as a national emergency. Public opinion began to shift in the US and
Western Europe: with rockets like this, the Soviets were ahead scientifically and militarily. Was this proof that their system was inherently
better? “Scientists, engineers, and workers reared
by our Communist Party in accordance with an advanced technology,” wrote a French
Physicist and Communist, “The whole world saw yet one more extraordinary, important
demonstration of the Socialist system’s superiority,” (3,238). For others, like Senate Majority Leader Lyndon
Baines Johnson, the problem was more existential: “Soon, they will be dropping bombs on us
from space like kids dropping rocks onto cars from freeway overpasses.” (4) Out of the public anger over the so-called
‘missile gap’ with the Soviets, and President Eisenhower’s apathy on the matter, Congress
passed the National Aeronautics and Space Act, formally creating the civilian-led National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, NASA (5,19;6). In terms of intercontinental rockets, the
US actually caught up pretty fast, but perception didn’t match this classified reality. And then another body blow. Just three years later, and only 3 months
into the Kennedy Administration, the Soviets won another version of the space race. They launched cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin into
earth’s orbit. President Kennedy lamented the fact that the
Soviets were first to put a man in space: “As I said in my State of the Union Message,
the news will be worse before it is better, and it will be some time before we catch up. We are, I hope, going to go in other areas
where we can be first and which will bring perhaps more long-range benefits to mankind. But we are behind.” This frame of a race- language like ‘we
are behind, we are ahead- was shared by both Kennedy and Khrushchev who on the same day
said: “Let the capitalist countries catch up with our country!” But this statement was more general. There was no preset “race to the moon”
as we like to see it today. No starting gun went off at the end World
War 2, while the US and Soviets were snatching up rocket scientists from the rubble of Germany,
explicitly so they could take humans to the moon. No. These countries wanted rocket technology so
they could aim nuclear weapons at each other. The progenitor of America’s rocket program
and eventually the moon landing itself was Wernher von Braun, a nazi scientist, running
a slave-labor factory producing V2 rockets to launch at England. Sure, people had dreamed of exploring the
cosmos forever, and human flight to space had been romanticized by authors like HG Wells
at the turn of the century, but geopolitics drove development. And politicians? Stalin, Truman, Eisenhower- they weren’t
dreaming of the moon. Eisenhower wanted to cut budgets, not take
on expensive new exploratory programs. Humanist pioneering was an afterthought; a
cynic might even call it military marketing. This is the irony of the space race: deep
down, it was an attempt to create technology capable of carrying apocalyptic weapons across
the globe, but sold as peaceful scientific discoveries for all humanity. Once the Soviets could put a warhead on an
intercontinental missile, as Sputnik was perceived to be a demonstration of in ’57, they “won”
the race. Only someone truly dynamic could shift the
goal posts of American shame to something other than just military supremacy- shift
the goal to say, a race to put a man on the moon. “Let both sides seek to invoke the wonders
of science instead of its terrors. Together let us explore the stars, conquer
the deserts, eradicate disease, tap the ocean depths and encourage the arts and commerce.” Let’s not slip into ‘great man history’. Despite the soaring rhetoric, Kennedy’s
space policy was scant in the transition and first few months of his administration. He lacked the intellectual curiosity to grasp
space-related science (5,70). He once told his NASA Administrator that “I’m
not that interested in space.” It was all a political matter to him, and
besides closing the perceived US-Soviet ‘missile gap’, a phrase he coined, Kennedy was prepared
to delegate matters of outer space to Vice President Johnson. And as we know, within three months of Kennedy
taking office, cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin became the first human to orbit the earth. US prestige was at an all-time low following
the successful launch and return of Gagarin. If Sputnik had suggested to the public that
the US was scientifically inferior, Gagarin’s flight confirmed it. A Washington Post editorial called it, “a
psychological victory of the first magnitude for the Soviet Union,” (3,318;5,72). And it was only under this crushing embarrassment
that President Kennedy started searching for an opportunity, as he put it, to “leapfrog”
the Soviet Union in space. At the White House after the Gagarin flight
he gesticulated nervously while asking advisors, “Is there any place we can catch them?...Can
we go around the moon before them? Can we put a man on the moon before them?” His mind was still racing a few days later
in a meeting with the vice president: “Do we have a chance of beating the Soviets by
putting a laboratory into space, or by a trip around the moon, or by a rocket to land on
the moon, or by a rocket to go to the moon and back with a man?” (3,319) April 14-21st 1961 defined the young
president’s thinking on space policy: He decided quote “There’s nothing more important,”
(5,78). And when pressed in public on April 21 he
finally let the public in on his thinking: “If we can get to the moon before the Russians,
then we should.” (9) But it was at this critical moment that a
confident Nikita Khrushchev sensed panic, not strength, in the White House. It wasn’t just America dragging behind in
space. The Soviet Premier delighted in a failed CIA-backed
invasion of Fidel Castro’s Cuba. He perceived Kennedy waffling on divided Berlin,
and pursuing mixed policy in Laos. In Khrushchev’s eyes, while the president
was off balance, it was the perfect time to meet face to face. On May 12th, he accepted Kennedy’s months-old
request to have a diplomatic summit on the issues of the day. Khrushchev planned to meet Kennedy and Khrushchev
planned to rattle him. Kennedy for his part, was deep in a depression
over perceived vulnerability, and he was eager to project strength in any way possible. So unusually, on May 25th he held a second
State of the Union Address, just a week before his meeting with Khrushchev. He called for 1.8 billion in defense assistance,
increased NATO strength, quicker Army deployment, and a larger Marine Corps (10). And finally, “I believe that this nation
should commit itself to achieving the goal, before this decade is out, of landing a man
on the moon and returning him safely to the earth. No single space project in this period will
be more impressive to mankind, or more important for the long-range exploration of space”
It was the only thing the president could do to stabilize the American position before
meeting with Khrushchev in Vienna. “This was the scene at Vienna’s airport
when President Kennedy’s plan arrived on the morning of Saturday, June 3rd. The World, beset by problems of Berlin and
Laos, nuclear testing and disarmament, looked to Vienna as the President of the United States
arrived.” As we already know, the meeting in Vienna
was a disaster from the start. The president veered into an ideological debate
with Khrushchev. And the premier, sensing weakness, berated
Kennedy to force his way. “"He beat the hell out of me" Kennedy told
James Reston of The Times. It was the "worst thing in my life. He savaged me." In the summit’s worst moment, Kennedy threatened
nuclear war over Berlin. Khrushchev said, “If the US wanted war,
that was its problem.” To which Kennedy responded: “If that’s
true, it going to be a long winter.” (7,500) And yet, in the midst of this tension and
during a lunch break, there was this offer from Kennedy on space. The US and the the Soviets could go to the
moon together. Given the context Khrushchev must have thought
it was a joke, or a ploy from a nation desperately behind in space technology. When he initially answered, “All right,
why not?” he couldn’t have been serious. In fact, the very next day, he reneged on
the whole thing. Besides a passing reference in a telegram
from Khrushchev to Kennedy to “[pooling] their efforts...to master the universe”,
the idea of a joint venture to the moon seemed dead (5,168). There simply wasn’t enough trust, any trust
for that matter. However, this isn’t the end of our story. Though the summit may have gone down in flames,
three shards gleamed in the ashes . First, Khrushchev implicitly accepted Kennedy’s
frame: the space race was now specifically be a race to the moon. Though with Sputnik and Gagarin, the Soviets
had won two space races of a kind, a third finish line now appeared before them. Second, in June of ‘62 the governments did
agree to extremely limited collaboration on weather information and geomagnetic mapping
(5,172). Which plays into third, though after the nuclear
conflict between the US and USSR was more likely than ever, the seed of cooperation
were planted through Kennedy’s offer. It’s something that neither man would completely
forget. In the year following the Vienna Summit, things
got much worse. The Soviets started construction on the Berlin
Wall, dividing their sector of the city from the area controlled by the Americans, British,
and French. In April 1962, 15 Jupiter missiles with nuclear
warheads deployed by the United States to Turkey became “ready”, “manned”, operational
(11). And therefore, feeling threatened by active
American warheads just one country over, Khrushchev decided to return the favor by shipping and
operationalizing nuclear-tipped missiles in Cuba. Khrushchev also thought having missiles pointed
at the US in Fidel Castro’s Cuba would bolster his ally’s position, increase bargaining
power in Berlin, and show Soviet conviction to balance power across the globe. It didn’t take long for an American U-2
spy plane to detect and photograph the ballistic facilities in Cuba. The president’s national security advisor
brought him the news in the early morning on October 15th. Kennedy expressed surprise
that Khrushchev had taken it so far. At this point any escalation could lead to
nuclear war. Going nuclear wasn’t just an option, it
was the probable outcome. That’s partly because of the threats Kennedy
and Khrushchev exchanged in Vienna, but also because the Joint Chiefs and members of Congress
were urging aggressive countermeasures: bomb the sites, then invade Cuba. But Kennedy wasn’t ready to make a decision
based in fear or pride. He wondered if Khrushchev would feel the same. The moment called for action, but also for
self-control and restraint. If he listened to those telling him to bomb
and invade right away, to “...do what they want us to do,” Kennedy said, “none of
us will be alive later to tell them that they were wrong.” (12,555) Instead, the president went on television
on October 22nd to announce a blockade of Cuba, and to urge Khrushchev to disassemble
Soviet missiles. He also sent Khrushchev a letter: “I have
not assumed that you or any other sane man would, in this nuclear age, deliberately plunge
the world into war which it is crystal clear no country could win.” The response from Khrushchev continued the
lack of trust from back in Vienna: “Mr. President, the actions of the United States
with regard to Cuba constitute outright banditry or, if you like, the folly of degenerate imperialism. Unfortunately, such folly can bring grave
suffering to the peoples of all countries…” (13). An American visitor of Premier Khrushchev
said he seemed to be deciding between “anger and fear” (7,566). At this moment, the two leaders were echoing
some similar thoughts, even if it wasn't apparent in their letters. Would the lives of millions be extinguished
in an angry moment? Was there any way they could climb down? On the 25th, Kennedy wrote another letter:
“I repeat my regret that these events should cause a deterioration in our relations.” He expressed hope that Khrushchev's government
would “take the necessary action to permit a restoration of the earlier situation.” Basically, could we just go back to a time
two weeks ago when our relations were just terrible but not apocalyptic? Since you're here, alive- listening to the
sound of my voice, you know this confrontation didn't result in nuclear war. Khrushchev was panicked by the idea of a war
in the Caribbean he knew he would lose, startled by Fidel Castro's desire to launch a preemptive
nuclear strike on the United States, and also, maybe, according to Khrushchev's son Sergei,
“touched” and “impressed” by Kennedy's October 25th letter (7,566). The Soviets took their missiles out of Cuba,
the US promised not to invade, and took their missiles from Turkey. The world didn't end in 1962. So where does this leave us in terms of space? If you had asked a concerned, scared citizen
staring down the barrel of oblivion in October of 1962 if the current Cuban Missile Crisis
would increase or decrease the likelihood that the US and Soviets going to the moon
together in a joint project, they'd have slapped you and said, “Of course it decreases the
chances. Since when was that even an option?” But that isn't true. The missile crisis spooked both men. We know Kennedy felt the burden of civilization
throughout, and Khrushchev later wrote in his memoirs about the eeriness of two men
across the world “each with his finger on the button." (14) Approaching the edge of nuclear war seemed
to convince both leaders of the need for improved relations. And having gone through this trial by ‘non-fire’
together, a chance to build trust emerged. If they could dodge the apocalypse together,
could they do the only other thing that would be more historically significant? Could they put humans on the rock nearest
our own, so at least when the next nuclear showdown broke out, someone would be away
to watch and weep? They started with baby steps: a system for
quicker communications between Washington and Moscow, known as the ‘red phone’ in
popular culture. Efforts to negotiate a treaty banning testing
of nuclear weapons reemerged and concluded successfully less than a year later. And important to our story, they started to
build trust in a series of letters. Khrushchev to Kennedy: “—there lies ahead
for you and me a great, serious talk on other questions.” (16)
Kennedy to Khrushchev: “It is of great importance that we should try to understand each other
clearly...I fear that there may have been an honest misunderstanding between us.” (17)
The letters could be sprawling policy disagreements, but also deeply personal. Khrushchev to Kennedy: (18). The relationship had transformed from the
belligerence in Vienna to cordiality and tentative trust. After the missile crisis, as Khrushchev biographer
William Taubman put it: “Khrushchev needed Kennedy and thought Kennedy needed him”
(7,604). He wasn’t wrong. Kennedy was under pressure at home. In 1963, the costs of the Apollo project were
adding up, as well as criticism from Congress. Strong doubts also came from civil rights
leaders and black newspapers, who wondered how a government could prioritize a moonshot
over civil rights or economic disparity on earth. As one author in their piece: “Only Way
I Could Get on the Moon Is to Be the First Janitor There.” (15) The clock was ticking on the political
will for a trip to the moon. Therefore there was an opening for something
different. Kennedy decided to step into that opening. On September 20th, 1963 he spoke before the
United Nations: “-in the field of space--there is room for new cooperation, for further joint
efforts in the regulation and exploration of space. I include among these possibilities a joint
expedition to the moon….Why, therefore, should man's first flight to the moon be a
matter of national competition?” Was this idea feasible? Both the national security apparatus of the
US and the Soviet politburo would have needed to sign off, a challenging ask (20). And historians debate if Kennedy was serious. Contemporaries doubted it could be done even
if the political will was there to try. And over a month of Soviet silence on the
issue after Kennedy’s speech seemed to confirm those doubts. It was another moment when critics of Kennedy
were highly annoyed. The same naivete that led him to a disastrous
summit in Vienna, the same empty rhetoric like with civil rights- embracing idealism,
celebrating values while falling so terribly short of them. The president looked good, spoke well, but
dynamism and youth can’t will policy into being. However, to the surprise of many, on November
1st 1963, Nikita Khrushchev appeared to give a tentative acceptance of the joint moon mission
offer. “We consider with due attention to the proposal
of the US president...specifically for arranging a joint flight to the moon. What could be better than to send a Russian
and an American together, or better still, a Russian man and an American woman?” (19; 5,191) Was Khrushchev serious? W.D. Kay in “John F. Kennedy and the Two Faces
of the U.S. Space Program” seemed to think Khrushchev was mocking Kennedy. However, John M. Logsdon came to the conclusion
that Khrushchev was serious. He used Khrushchev’s son Sergei as evidence. Sergei said that after Kennedy’s UN speech,
Khrushchev “openly spoke about cooperating with the United States on a lunar landing
project... [he] began to trust Kennedy more” (5,192). There had been a shift since Vienna, since
the cuban missile crisis. Through miniscule collaborations, through
a test ban treaty, through phone lines and letters, there might have been a change. What had been scoffed at in Vienna was now
a real possibility. Kennedy had framed the struggle for military
superiority instead as race to the moon, and now competition could potentially be cooperation. Born of a nuclear struggle on earth, idealism
might actually be winning. The administration jumped at Khrushchev’s
opening. On November 12th 1963 President Kennedy signed
a memo on “Cooperation with the USSR on Outer Space Matters” (5,193). On November 15th 1963, Bobby Kennedy spoke
of a do-over of the Vienna Summit, minus the hostility. JFK and Khrushchev would sit down over a few
days and work out their affairs (7,604). According to the Soviet Ambassador, Khrushchev
was determined to make a success of his second summit with Kennedy. There was never a guarantee, maybe not even
a likelihood, but there was a chance. “why, some say, the moon? Why choose this as our goal? And they may well ask why climb the highest
mountain? Why, 35 years ago, fly the Atlantic? Why does Rice play Texas? We choose to go to the moon. We choose to go to the moon in this decade
and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard, because
that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and skills, because
that challenge is one that we are willing to accept, one we are unwilling to postpone,
and one which we intend to win, and the others, too.” “From Dallas Texas, a flash, apparently
official. President Kennedy died at 1pm Central Standard
Time, 2 o’clock Eastern Standard Time, some 38 minutes ago.” An abridged letter from Jacqueline Kennedy
to Nikita Khrushchev. December 1st, 1963:
“Dear Mr. Chairman President, ...In one of the last nights I will spend
in the White House, in one of the last letters I will write on this paper at the White House,
I would like to write you my message. I send it only because I know how much my
husband cared about peace...You and he were adversaries, but you were allied in a determination
that the world should not be blown up. ...The danger which troubled my husband was
that war might be started not so much by the big men as by the little ones. While big men know the need for self-control
and restraint—little men are sometimes moved more by fear and pride...I send this letter
because I know so deeply of the importance of the relationship which existed between
you and my husband, and also because of your kindness, and that of Mrs. Khrushchev in Vienna. I read that she had tears in her eyes when
she left the American Embassy in Moscow... Please thank her for that. Sincerely, Jacqueline Kennedy.” 