In Longyearbyen, Norway it’s illegal to
die. Now, keen viewers will notice that I’ve
already talked about this place in HAI #5, but any good writer knows that if something
works once, reuse it to death, sort’ve like with Family Guy. Longyearbyen is just so interesting, and,
in fact, I should probably just go and film a video there but, you know, it’s cold. Longyearbyen is so insanely far north that
by going over the North Pole, it’s closer to Barrow, Alaska than Milan, Italy. It’s so insanely far north that the sun
does not rise for four months in the winter and it stays up for four months in the summer. It’s so insanely far north that the average
winter temperature has warmed six degrees in the past 30 years, oh wait, that’s not
a very fun fact. That’s not a very fun fact at all! For how far north it is, Longyearbyen is a
surprisingly large town—over 2000 people live there. In fact, there is no larger town further north
than Longyearbyen. Because of this, Longyearbyen has the northernmost
university, cell tower, circus, art gallery, bowling alley, swimming pool, bus station,
gas station, commercial airport, department store, bank, fire station, ATM, Toyota dealership,
bar, and kebab restaurant in the world. It’s a legitimate town, but it’s still
1,200 miles north of Oslo so there are some quirks. For one, polar bears live there too and they
occasionally eat people, which is bad, so it’s actually illegal to leave the Longyearbyen
area without a gun. Possibly for related reasons, there’s also
a monthly limit to how much alcohol one can buy at 24 cans of beer, 2 bottles of liquor,
and half a bottle of fortified wine. While local residents carry an “alcohol
card” to track their quota, visitors have to present their airline boarding pass from
their arriving flight at the liquor store. Longyearbyen even bans cats to save the local
population of arctic birds. They just love banning things, but now for
the clickbait—dying is illegal in Longyearbyen. As you can probably tell, Longyearbyen is
no beach resort. The average temperature in February is one
degree Fahrenheit so things tend to freeze and to stay frozen. In places as cold as Longyearbyen there is
what’s known as permafrost. By splitting this word into two, you can get
a sense of what it means. You see, “perma” means permit me to show
you how to put this word into Google so you can find out that permafrost is where the
ground stays below freezing permanently. While it may rise above freezing above ground,
places with permafrost, such as Longyearbyen, will always be below freezing below ground,
which happens to be where you put dead bodies. The same principle that keeps your chicken
nuggets edible for years on end in the freezer does the same to bodies—not keep them edible,
I mean I guess technically, but just… don’t eat people. While it may seem pretty great for bodies
to not rot away, it’s not. You see, in 1918 a few people got the flu—about
half a billion to be exact—in what came to be known as the Spanish Flu Pandemic. Of the up to 100 million individuals who died,
11 were in Longyearbyen so they established a graveyard that looks like this. When you put a corpse into a giant underground
freezer it turns out that you don’t just preserve the body, you also preserve the viruses
inside the body and so lurking below Longyearbyen are some of the only active samples of a flu
strain that killed 5% of the world’s population, which is actually quite useful. Researchers still don’t fully understand
why the 1918 flu was so deadly and they don’t just have samples lying around, so these bodies
buried in the arctic permafrost potentially hold some of the clues that could stop a future
global pandemic, but in the meantime, you really don’t want diseases that could obliterate
future civilizations just laying a few feet underground preserved for eternity, and Longyearbyen
agrees, so that’s why death is now illegal in this small Norwegian town. If you’re near death, you’re flown down
to the mainland to live out your final days and if you die unexpectedly, well, there’s
no space for you here. 