Our makeup artist says
she can't make me a devil. So, Miyeon's Concept Today? A bit... Angelic outside, devilish inside. The appearance is that of an angel. Soojin>> (Raging) Come here! I'm Not an Angel Anymore
 First Broadcasting Behind Part 2 (G)I-DLE
Show! Music Core Waiting Room (Hi~) I'm thinking hard now. About What? About my gesture.
It goes like this. Master of Gesture
Shushu is Thinking Hard about New Gestures I'm thinking about changing it today. But, my hair is... It has to look pretty. (The hair is always bothering her) (Does it happen to be a new gesture...?) After I finished the schedule yesterday, I went to bed very early! So, I'm full of energy today. You're very passionate today! I'm passionate every single day! Everyday Passionate Girl First Week of !
Anything you wanna hear from NEVERLAND? Well~ So many~ Shuhua, way to go! Well done, Shushu~ Shuhua is the best! I love to be praised. So, keep praising me, please! (Praising immediately)
You're so pretty today! (So...) (So...)   (Happy) (Clicking) Photographer Yuqi is taking
my pictures so hard again today. Among the pictures on my Instagram... Nearly all of them. 80% of them were taken by Yuqi. Leader Sso's Dedicated Photographer,
Yuqi Song The Reason You Love the Pictures
Taken by Yuqi? Because Yuqi Loves me~~~ Yuqi>>Nah~~~
Don't say nonsense! She knows when I'm prettier. She takes my pictures
the way she wants to look at me. My pretty face. Yuqi knows best what I have in my mind. Too many things around you. Yuqi Never Takes Pictures Roughly Take them away! (Cute)
Bye~ Come closer this way! Helping Take Her Positions Well 'Oh my god' Black Version Performance! I-DLE Finished the Pre-recording! It was our first performance
on  stage! What? Puppy Minnie is Excited by Performing on the Cool Set So, we looked very pretty~ Enjoy it a lot, okay? (Blinking)
What should I do? (Come here) They say I'm so cute... Really Serious (Sensing)
You were kind of cute today... (Firmly)
I don't like it. Cute Song Yuqi Doesn't Want
to Be Cute Today Again (Pouting) Our concept today is a devil
but Miyeon's makeup is for an angel! Our makeup artist says
she can't make me a devil. So, Miyeon's Concept Today? A bit... Angelic outside, devilish inside. The appearance is that of an angel. Soojin>> (Raging) Come here! I Saw the Devil...
Haven't we seen the devil now?! (Ignoring)
I have to take some pictures. We're Curious about What She Has Said to Miyeon... But Her Beauty Makes Us Forget the Question... I have a big sty.
(Whining~) To cover it,
I've got the very thick eyelines here. Who are you? Devil! Pretending to be an angel outside! Devil inside~ Everybody, be careful of me... Because I'm a scary person. You got it?! Not Scary at All...
(The reason devil's makeup doesn't suit her...) She's not scary at all, huh? (Disconcerted) Soosoo's Styling Miyeon Introduces! Today, it's all black concept. I can't see any white bit from her costume! And today, she's wearing gloves. They're really~ They're fluffy gloves! Revealing the Lining for the First Time!
Fluffy Material~  Since you can't meet NEVERLAND in person,
you can't hear the cheering method... That's why I feel weak... Our NEVERLAND usually shouts and cheers for us, and they keep talking when we take a rest, and we play a joke on each other. (Whining~) I'm so sad... Everybody~ When I danced just now... It went like this like .
Shushu Got Hair on the Face Again Like Eh-Oh!... Why~~~!!! (Angry)
Should I cut it? Senseless hair...!
Shuhua Is So Upset About It (Complaining)
I should have my hair cut. Why is it doing this to me?
(Frustrated) Complaining about the Bad Hair>> I'm so angry~ Gradationally Furious & Irritated I've raised my hair so well. Why are you being nasty... Huh?! Shushu's Mind Now, 'Oh my god~' Because of the Spoiled Hair,
the Youngest is Suffering so Hard I can't do it! From the early morning,
I did my best but... Eh~Oh! (Upset) But, NEVERLAND will adore you~ I can't accept that! I'm angry at myself... I can't accept that! I Can't... Forgive... Myself...!!! (Sullen) Should I get it cut? Sis! I need a confort(?) The Youngest Needs a Comfort Your hair is your charm. That'll be your signature. A Patent!
Yeh Shuhua's Hair Performance~ Shuhua is thinking about having a bang. (Strongly recommended)
Have a bang. Minnie's hair in  is similar
to that of Shuhua now~ I'm so upset about it because Shuhua said her hair is the same as mine
but it's different~! (Puppy Minnie is in the bad mood
about being called the same) Your hair is somewhat yellowish. Shuhua's - Lemon & Lime   Minnie's - Turquoise She has a yellow color. (Different... Very different) (G)I-DLE
The Music Trend Waiting Room Who's Doing the Hand Motion Instead of Minnie? (Wrong~) How can I do it here? (Stuttering) Shuhua! x 2 The Owner of the Hands is Shuhua~ I'm having a ponytail today. Do you like it? Scene Stealer Yuqi Appears Again Huh? Yuqi has the same one, right? Same Hair Accessory as Shuhua's! Why? (Tiki Taka Again) (Passing~) Thank you~ Yuqi has gone! Recently, Yuqi keeps asking me, 'Sis, am I cute?' (Miyeon appears) For a while, Yuqi didn't like
to hear that she was cute. But, now she wants to hear
that she's cute again. And, she has become cuter nowadays! Now, I think I know the reason. When she's on the stage,
she wants to look cool. And at other times, she wants to be cute. Finally... The Big Sisters Have Grasped Yuqi The concept today is an angel~ But Miyeon is... She's a star today. Actually, I'm not an angel~ True, you know that, too? I look like an angel at a glance. Weeping again today? She did this makeup yesterday, too. The Tear Makeup Completes Angel Miyeon But, the details are different every time. The same tears
but the fluttering shapes are different. Today's Shape
The Teardrop in a Driving Car If you're an angel, why are you crying? Because I'm fighting with the devil inside of my heart! An angel doesn't cry easily~ Why fighting? You're just the devil, right? (Squabbling Puppies Whenever Possible) Why are your teardrops on the eyes? They're not teardrops.
(Shrug) My own skin is glittering... Why are your teardrops shedding from the hair? Shushu is Shedding Tears from the Hair Oh! I've got it! Angel Miyeon's Teardrops Became the Rain,
Shuhua Got Soaked with It, What a Beautiful Story! (Cool & Cute) Yuqi Appears She's got soaked in rain, too~ Do you know why? Because I'm Yuqi (Rainy season). (Oh~~) (Grasping now) Yuqi, the Queen of Playing on Words Snake Pattern is the Point!
Whose Fingernails Are They? The Fingernails look very impressive! Because~ I'm the devil~ Isn't today's concept an angel? I am... A devil. I'm not an angel. Though it's the angel concept,
I'm still a devil. A devil, just a devil. (Her eyes are moving following something) Hey... A Maltese Appears Shushu Gets Stuck on Soosoo Again Oh...! Oh...!! Soojin also has teardrops. On the double eyelid. The Glitters on the Eyes = Teardrops My tear is here! (Tuning in) So... I am... So... I want to shampoo it so much! Oh... You want to shampoo...
(Cheering) Shuhua hits me with her hair everyday. Whenever we get in the car,
she hits me with the hair. (Slapping~) It's cold!
(Shuhua likes Soojin today again) (Soojin is annoyed by Shuhua today again) You're so heavy... Minnie is Copying Yuqi's Performance (Oh, my...) Minnie & Shuhua are Having Fun with Copying Yuqi Why are they copying my gestures everyday?! Then, I'll copy Shuhua! (Frowning) How do I look? You're good... Touched Unexpectedly... Special Project, HUMAN THEATER,
The Dancers' Life of (G)I-DLE For the Wonderful Performance,
The Dancers Keep in Tune All the Time And Make the Artists More Shinning Let's Listen to Their Story We'll Try the Interview with the Dancers Can I interview you now? (Captured) (Captured)
The performance of I-DLE this time... You're doing it with them. Do you like it~? Unexpected Question   (The answer is already set) Yes~ I love it~ Q. Any hardship you have? So many hardships...! <<The Leader
Cut, cut! Go away! Another one. Dancer 1
Dropped Out the Interview Leader>>
Interview with a sweetmouth! (Casting a Sweetmouth >>) (Found a Sweetmouth) Q. Any hardship you have? Dancer 1>> (Sad)
She keeps asking the hardship! With the I-DLE members and sisters and the leaders and the choreographers are all nice to us... (Dancer, if you're threatened now,
blink your eyes twice...!) (About to cry)
All of us try hard. Q. I'm curious which member keeps hitting dancers! Huh? (Disconcerted) (What kind of question is that?) Who hit the dancers while dancing? Nobody... But, I hit you yesterday~ (Shuhua seems to say what she wants to say) Can you see me?
(Learned how to ask) Very well... Very well... Actually, I hardly see you... Confessing (Sensing)
I just couldn't say it frankly. (Yeh Shuhua is being educated again) Q. Do you like it? The black thing blah blah~ Yeh Shuhua is Disqualified as the Interviewer Hello~ Replacing the Interviewer Naturally Asking about the Dancers' Costume!
I could see well with the black and white costumes. But I couldn't see well
in the skin-colored costume. Well done! (Finishing abruptly) Well done~! Don't miss the show!
(I-TALK Promotion Fairy) Dancers, Thank You for the Interview~ The White Version of 'Oh my god'
Also Finished Wonderfully! Well done, everybody! WD! Can I watch it? What's that? 'W'ell 'D'one. Shuhua's Expression
Abbreviating Well Done to WD Nowadays, Shuhua abbreviates every word. (When did I do that?) But, the funny thing is
we understand what it means. (Tired)
I didn't want to know TMI. But, I happened to know
about Shushu too much. Her name is Susan! Shuhua's English Name, Susan (Doubtful)
Did you get it because you like Soojin? (Abruptly) Didn't she want to be Susan because of you? No, from kindergarten,
my English name is Susan. You're Sophie and I'm Susan! What? Why am I Sophie? Mine was Ivy~ No, you should change it.
You're Sophie, and I'm Susan. Soseun? Soseun & Ivy are Miscommunicating... Hi? Today, we are here~ We're at The Music Trend~ I tried to sleep last night, but I failed... Because I lack sleeping recently, I tried to sleep earlier last night. But, I felt it was a waste of time... The time was too young(?) to sleep. So, smelling the flower here,
I'm healing myself. These are fake flowers! Do you like fake flowers? (Hehe) Mm~ A tree smell~
(Enjoying spring) It's like spring is here. I hope you can enjoy spring, too~ Yesterday, we did the fan signing event
through the video call. I really wanted to see you in person. I was really sad because we couldn't listen
to the cheering roars in the live broadcast~ I hope we can get happy days back soon! Anyway, I thank you so much
for cheering us up from afar~ It cheers me up so much and I'll work harder, I promise! Bye~ Enjoy spring here! Just like I enjoy it through the fake flowers! Bye~ We are done with the first week
of 'Oh my god' performance!! - Well done, everybody!
- Yes! But, it's not over yet
and we have so much cool stuff for you. So, stay with us to the end, okay? We're so sad not to meet our NEVERLAND this time but thank you so much for cheering us up! Shall we say goodbye for the first week? One, two! I~ Thank You.
We're (G)I-DLE! Bye~ 