- In today's episode of (keyboard caps spreads on table) Linus Tech tips home isolation edition, we are going to take these plain old boring keyboard key caps and infuse dye into them surface of them to make our very own
full-color custom key caps. All you need to do this is
a converted Ink jet printer, a homemade heat press,
some sublimation paper, in my hand, left. And a little bit of patience. This is going to be my first time doing it so let's hope that
Collins instructions are extremely clear. SimpliSafe is the effective and affordable home security service designed
to keep your home safe. Head to simplisafe dot
com forward slash L-T-T and stay tuned for more info
coming later on in this video. (techno music playing) Dye sublimation is the
process of printing a dye onto a transfer medium,
then with the application of both heat and
pressure, infusing the dye into the surface of a receptive material. This process is commonly
used to print onto mugs, clothing, phone cases and much much more, and with a little bit of work, you can take an everyday Inkjet printer and some dye sublimation transfer paper. (hand taps on table) Oh looks like I already have that one. How convenient. Note that if you choose to
convert a second hand printer guys there are some extra steps involved. We went new and we chose the Epson WF-7210 because it's relatively cheap and there were ample choices
for dye-sub conversion kits on Amazon. Time to set it up I guess, I have no instructions
for this so huu good luck. The most important thing though is to not run the stock
cartridges at any point because then it's a used printer and now you have to do those extra steps. This looks and feels extremely cheap. Refill ink hole is this, this is so stupid, these don't even have screw on top, there's just like rams on there. That's not amazing, wait
oh shoot that's not the oh that the air hole. Oh shut. I have one job, I have one job. Put the thing into the correct hole. See You knew I wasn't gonna
be able to handle that. Alright there one down. (upbeat music playing) I think look at the size because normally the black ones are bigger but I don't think it actually
lets you fill it all the way. Okay, well we've got us a printer ladies and gentlemen. Probably like that I guess. would I screw up something
as simple as loading paper in a printer? - [Lady] Yes. Well would I screw up something
as big as marrying someone who doesn't know how to
put paper in a printer? No. Now that that's over with,
we can get to printing. So I've actually got a sheet of designs from our very own one and only
macro King Taran Van Hemert. Apparently this is just one of the uh many that Taran has requested. So it's gonna to be a lot
of trial-and-error here. I guess it doesn't really matter
which design we start with. Why does he need a band key? - [Lady] Why does he need a gun key? Two gun keys. - I don't know. and visit L-C-T store dot com. Ohh whose the hater now? Alright lets have a
look at our sides here. So these are supposed to be
11 milometer by 11 milometer, which should fit pretty
nicely on to our keys. We didn't go right to the edge,
Um left a bit of a border, but that was on purpose. Now that's done, I will
finally go through the press that call them in. So the construction is pretty simple, we've got two pieces of wood, small hinge, a heater element right here
and then in a power supply for the afore mentioned heater element. Uh we also use some high temp J-B Weld to hold the heater in place, and basically all that's
involved is you take this puppy, put it uh this way and
then apply pressure. When you've got both heat and pressure, the ink should soak into
the key cap permanently. Collins instructions are
doing pretty well until now I'm supposed to remove this
silicone from this plastic strip but they seem to have
bonded fairly permanently. Not gonna work. Nope this is not coming off. Fine I guess you're getting the ax today, this was the only other silicone thing that I could find in this
building unfortunately. Now we just need a piece of
this that is about the same size as our key cap print out. The silicone goes on there, apply pressure for 50 to 60 seconds. Geese that is a long time. Okay, here we go. alright let's have a look. We got nothing let's try that again, absolutely nothing. I have an uneasy suspicion that this ink, is not dye sublimation ink at all. Because I would have expected
it to transfer at least a little bit so far. As you guys can probably
tell from the improvements to the lighting, skill
with the camera and beard, some time has passed and I
am ready to pick up again with DIY custom key caps this
time with the correct ink. You want Minecraft header or
you want the Minecraft block? - [Little Girl] Head. - So we need to take our creeper and we're gonna put it on top of there - That's up side down. - Yes so that's the whole point. The ink on the top is going to get soaked into this plastic right here, so it needs to be upside down. Can you count to 60? - One, two, three (time lapse sound) 60. - Whooo that is pretty cool. Alright. So there's our Minecraft creeper, I don't know if it needs
to cool down to be durable but seems fine right off the bat. The idea is that the ink actually soaks right into the plastic so it shouldn't be easy to remove. - Daddy can you stope please - Stop what? - Stope rubbing it. - Why, I'm trying I'm trying to test it to see if its gonna come
off, It's not coming off. Impressively the color is actually better after you sublimate it. So you can see our white key cap is a much more vibrant green than our white piece of paper here. Okay let's do the little cute face. - Wow that's really good cutting. One, two, 59, 60. - okay do you think it worked? - Yes. - [Boy] Oh that's adorable. - Just like the creeper,
the dye is sublimated into the key cap material so
that it does not scratch off, that is super cool. I've only done half a dozen of them so far but I've already learned
quite a few things. Number one is that more
pressure seems to me that you can get away with less time. Number two is that dye sublimation definitely doesn't work
on dark key caps at all, not only did the images not
transfer particularly well but we actually found that
they melted more easily from the heating element, and then the other one is that if you don't get a full transfer, you can actually kind of
peel it back a little bit, put it back on, and
then give it another go. That was how we fix the L-T-T logo one. If I were to design the heat press again, one thing I would probably change is to elevate the hinge a little bit, cause right now what I'm finding is compared to just doing 40 seconds which is what I've settled
on now with more pressure. I kind of have to do 20 seconds one side, 20 seconds the other side in order to get an even application. Now that I've got the hang of it though, they are coming out incredibly well as long as it's a pretty simple design on a light-colored cap. I wanna take another crack at this bat one when you can clearly see I
didn't put enough pressure on it. Let's check this Minecraft block shall we. Hey hey. How does that look? - [Little Girl] Giggles - Pretty good hey? - Hmm - Do you guys wanna take
another crack at the Batman key? - Yup please. - Well we can do that together, but I think I'm done
talking to the audience, so that means it's time for our sponsor. SimpliSafe is designed to
protect your home like a pro. So they offer 24 seven
professional monitoring, they offered three and a half
times faster police dispatch and SimpliSafe's alarms received the highest
priority police dispatch. Their security specialist will write real eyewitness
evidence to the police department and they can't even protect
your home both inside and out. Their video door bell and HD cameras alert you to anyone approaching your home and their smart locks have entry sensors guard the perimeter. They've got lotion and
glass break sensors, privacy protecting cameras to provide another layer of protection and PCMag named them
their editor's choice. It costs about 50 cents
a day, with no contract. One we'd like to highlight
is the SimpliSafe lock. It's designed to make sure
that your door is locked even when you forget to do it. So it'll automatically lock on a timer, or whenever you are in your system, and what cool is that it
unlocks through a pin pad and it'll disarm your entire
system when you do that. It'll then help you keep
track of who comes and goes with alerts when anyone
locks or unlocks your door. So check it out and learn more at simplisafe dot com forward slash L-T-T. If you guys enjoyed this video, maybe check out our recent
video where we showed off the only all metal keyboard
as far as we are aware. That's right all metal body
all metal key caps even. we're going to have that links down below. 