All right lads welcome back to my channel and if you are new here my name is Tom Harlock and I do not have an intro. And I am also lacking the necessary qualifications to be a gynecologist. Doesn't mean I can't recognize a twat when I see one. This week has been full of problems from Jaclyn Hill releasing moldy lipsticks That looks like she's just severed a bunch of dog peni, separated them by shade Called it a fun name like prom or flirty Popped them in a cheap express container and then just hoped for the best To Jojo Siwa having her products recalled Because they found asbestos in them Fucking hell Jojo, speaking of respiratory issues *Trisha singing probably the worst version of this song ever* Trisha Paytas decided to show us exactly what dreams are made of And I'm not referring to her pounding herself on her patreon (lmao) When she made this masterpiece *more of this hot mess Trisha created* If that's supposed to be my dream I'm very grateful I'm an underachiever But eclipsing all of the aforementioned Love Island is back (oof) *According to all known laws of aviation, there is no way a bee should be able to fly. Its wings are too small to get its fat little body off the ground. The bee, of course, flies anyway because bees don't care what humans think is impossible. Yellow, black. Yellow, black. Yellow, black. Yellow, black. Ooh, black and yellow! Let's shake it up a little. Barry! Breakfast is ready!* Woo hoo Woo. Hoo. If you are blessed enough to not know what Love island is Or why it took the world by storm Don't worry baby, I'm a fountain of knowledge And I'm about to erupt *slight disgust/confusion* *beautiful instrument yeet* I have completed my national service By spending the last couple of days researching nothing but Love Island videos And I have come to uno conclusio It's a pile of rancid bollocks Did you expect much else? So sit back and relax Cause for today's video I'm gonna find out exactly what's wrong with Love Island And to do that I'm gonna have to spell out their definition of love Just as a precursor to this video If there is any Love Island contestants watching this Please pay particular attention to this segment As you may learn how to spell a really big word (I love his sarcasm oof) L is for Look how desperate you look The premise of Love Island is pretty simple You take some attractive strangers Ping them in a villa in Spain Record them 24/7 And force them to fall in love for a cash prize It is quite a nice concept really It's just the massive shame The majority of the contestants are dull *ew this is cringe asf* Desperate. *idc what anyone says he is ugly and sounds dumb asf* And insufferable *Wtf is up with this dudes head shape* The contestants are introduced to us via their "Meet the Islanders" videos It's kind of a little intro into who they are and what they're about And I haven't seen a single one that hasn't made me feel violently sick So lets watch a few, role the vt's baby Let's meet the Islanders *why, just why does this boy even e x i s t* Aka I sell sandwiches out of the back of my car. Well consider my attention Elizabeth Fritzl  between the years 1984 and 2008 Captured as fuck. *literally nobody cares* Getting asked to show your ID when you're ordering  a Smirnoff ice Does not qualify as attention. May I be the first person to recommend a Love Island Chernobyl style 8 weeks, no hazmat suits, and all the radiation one skin can absorb *nobody wants to see that* *I might puke,,,, this is too cringy* Yeah we get it, you've got a body like Bay Watch A personality like Madeleine McCann ...Missing *go away, get off my screen I want to see Tom's beautiful face yeet* Oh doctor, I think I've got problems with my sight ....I've got a wandering eye Uh any issues with your vision could probably be fixed if you take your hands off your fucking face Peek-a-Boo And I've had so many sexually transmitted diseases My penis has been condemned by environmental health Let me guess, is it your philanthropic efforts that you're proud of? Are you impressed with your reduced carbon footprint? You say you got nice hair I say you got misplaced confidence *ugh this guy again* Imagine it's your first time on television And within 5 seconds You've admitted to having no identity of your own I too have piercing blue eyes But when people see mine, they usually just think I'm part of Hitler youth Moving on O is for One brain cell, flickering in an attempt to conjure a singular thought A "representation" of the audience is how the producers describe the casting positions made on the show. And based on that, I've deducted that the audience are dumb as shit Obviously, a bunch of wannabe Instagram influencers were never gonna be discussing the famine in Yemen The Israeli-Palestinian conflict Or the ramifications of the Industrial Revolution But nothing could've prepared me for this Meet Hayley from last years Love Island She's a very pretty blonde woman from Liverpool It's just a shame she's got about as many active brain cells as a baby conceived in Chernobyl I'll add subtitles to this bit for any of our international viewers Or anybody else that isn't cultured enough to understand this girls tongue Pffttt it gets worse. God bless our educational system aye? 😂😂 Probably the one thing I've learned watching Love Island clips over the last couple of days is It's whats inside that counts I'm not talking about your heart and your soul, and your intentions. I'm talking about your brain. V is for Venereal Diseasessss We have a bit of a reputation as a nation for drinking too much, swearing a bit too loudly,,, getting pregnant a bit too young Just being total slags if I'm completely honest And the microcosm that is Love Island represents us pretty well To win Love Island you have to be a couple And then you have to convince your fellow islanders and the audience at home, that you're a couple in l o v e And what's the most efficient way of convincing someone you're in love? Fucking on national television (of course, what else would it be) I'm not saying consenting adults can't do what they want But what I am saying is If I was to do this on tv My dad would come back into my life, rebuild our relationship, to just leave again. (oof me too buddy) And you know what, I'll deserve it if I'm honest Moving on E is for Entertainment Industry Here I Come This may be a huge shock so, brace yourself But once the contestants of Love Island leave the villa, and are no longer being produced by reality tv show creators They suddenly realize they're about as entertaining as being told, Mr. and Mrs.Smith Great news, your daughter's spinal operation has been booked in And we've got a brilliant recovery unit all waiting for her At the Stoke Mandeville Hospital In the Jimmy Savile spinal unit This results in a plethora of teeth whitening adverts and booty Instagram posts Any kind of public stunt, to get any kind of headline Such as getting married on live tv Gross (I agree) And if I'm honest it's kind of embarrassing that there are millions of people out there Waiting and gagging to go through this reality tv show machine To hopefully get a few Instagram likes and Youtube views, its emb- What am I doing with my life? (I ask myself this question every day) Speaking of life after Love Island The show has come under fire for not providing sufficient aftercare to the contestants. It's even been called out for not being diverse enough But given the obsession with pretty people and the fact that Love Island is essentially an 8-week Instagram story I don't think it's gonna be leaving our screens anytime soon That's all the time I had for today's video If you did enjoy it make sure to like and subscribe for more Let me know down below in the comments if you think Love Island contestants deserve rights Are you a fan of the show? If so let me know down in the comments why you dislike yourself so much! Thanks again to Skill Share for sponsoring, make sure you're quick and click the link in my description They are great to this channel, they allow me to make jokes that get me instantly demonitized. So, thanks Skill Share! :) I kind of want to release a full Meet the Islanders video,,, because I think I'm very funny. So let me know down in the comments if you would like to see that, cause I will well get cracking with it Thanks again for watching make sure to follow me on Instagram and Twitter @tom_harlock I do like to be told I'm pretty, hilarious, and also intimidating. So take your pick ;) UwU thank you Tom for blessing us with another one of your amazing and hilarious videos. Anybody reading this, Have a great day/night! :) 