(At the dressing room for Show Champion!)
Hello, we're starting our 3rd week of promo Today, we're going on 'Show Champion' And things are very hectic because we had an early start
getting ready today We're going to make an energetic start
to the third week of our promotion We have many schedules planned in between Along with Show Champion,
we're also going on visible radio So I think today is going to be a busy day Today is Show Champion
Today is Show Champion Today is Wednesday
Today is Wednesday It's our third week of promotion
It's our third week of promotion (Everything is double...★)
Let's go get 'em, let's go get 'em We also finished our
in-between-schedule shoots! We filmed with Young-ji and she made us feel so comfortable
and it was so much fun I'm very excited about the video (Ryujin's shocking makeover)
Oh, my god! This is crazy!! LOL What do you think? (Cracking herself up) It's too noticeable? If you have long hair with that color, that'd be a complete transformation What about this? Then it's... I still can't wrap my head around it At Show Champion, we met with
Teng Ji (aka Young-ji ♥) And we're about to go on
Jung Eun-ji's radio show I'm wearing this pretty
heart-shaped necklace I wanted to wear my hair down but I think this ponytail looks a bit chic Bye ♥ (KBS RADIO Music Plaza) (Chaeryeong's busy drawing
during her break) Tell what you're doing to the camera What it is you're doing (Shy) It's my hobby Why are you acting all shy? I'm not good enough to
draw from scratch yet So at the moment, I'm just copying
a pretty drawing (What she drew in her spare time!)
I really like drawing eyes So I drew this in my spare time Radio is fun ♥ (ITZY is in an upbeat mood
because of their fun radio schedule) Radio schedule with Jung Eun-ji ♥ (Radio over, back to Show Champion!)
Goodbye~ Eun-ji gave us these strawberry lattes
and they're so tasty! Rawr! (A kitten who thinks she's a tiger) The radio's over, so we're going back
to Show Champion (Scene stealer) (Tasty!)
and change into our stage outfits My chin suddenly feels itchy It's so tasty! (Came back to Show Champion!) Oh, goodness! That rascal (Cheeky Ryujin) (Chaeryeong's in awe of Ryujin's
opening performance) We were so grateful to hear that
we're a 1st place nominee And people asked us what we'll do if we win So we promised we'll sing
each others' parts Tell us whose part you'll be singing I'll be singing Yuna's part Sorry↗ Sorry↗ For me! (Fatal charm...★) Oh ♥
That part suits you (The type that follows instructions well) You're good? (Compliments make Yuna dance) (Adorable) (Who will win today's 1st place?
It's ITZY!) First, I'd like to say thank you to MIDZY
Thank you so much! MIDZY, and everyone, always stay healthy And thank you for sending lots of love
for  and ITZY MIDZY, I love you ♥ We won first place at Show Champion
thanks to MIDZY again Why does the trophy look so pretty? As I've always told you, I think MIDZY would've been so happy
even though they weren't here with us Thank you so, so much And we'll sincerely receive this award and keep it You'll keep it?
I'll dedicate this award to MIDZY We were so surprised at the end And I'm sure MIDZY is also very surprised
and happy right now MIDZY, thank you so much once again And I'm glad if we made you feel better To show you a good performance tomorrow, we're...! going to go now ITZY! MIDZY! WANNABE! HOO! Thank you ♥ (M Countdown)
It's our third week And we're at M Countdown We're all wearing sporty outfits today I think the fans are going to love it We're doing our first live broadcast
here at M Countdown I kept the hair roller in my bangs all day So they keep going up above my eyebrows I'm Rapper Yeji I couldn't be more ready They say it'll rain today Yeji knows how to have fun And that's no fun~ (Why you little...!)
You...! You! Today, I'll be singing
"I'll take care of myself" the JYP way (Peekaboo! I'll take care of myself!) I'm gonna do it like that And Yeji... I'll show you (Serious) Show us (I'm a lone wolf) Those sad eyes...★ Do you see this detail? (Practicing in her spare time like a pro) I feel like these tassels are chasing me How many are there? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6... ... 19, 20! There are 20 of these! I've got 20 tassels and I'm 20 years old! The live broadcast started Today's our first live broadcast as well And we were all so nervous (We'll do our best)
Until these white pants turn black (The roommates monitoring intently) I see that Yuna takes up a lot of space So I don't think you have to move
to the back too much (Letting no small detail on stage
escape their careful attention) Today, we also...! won 1st place (boom) and it's all (clap) thanks to (boom) MIDZY! (clap) And we also did a live broadcast And Ryujin's freestyle dance! MIDZY, did you see her kick? I'm so glad we did a fun stage today MIDZY, thank you so much for today
and let's do our best tomorrow ITZY, great work today Should we yell out 'MIDZY, I love you'
before we go? - What you want to say!
- Okay! MID! Oh~ What you want to say is 'MID' ZY! (Inhale) Thank! you so much :) Geez, the flow! (Great teamwork when teasing the leader★)
What flow? It's your turn now You so much :) 'I love you ♥'
You should just say that, hurry If you take your time-- (Group shock) (Outdated cuteness)
That was no fun What? Let's do this for last Go! ITZY! MIDZY! Let's fly! These days, acting girly is her thing Yoo hoo~ We did a headbutt MIDZY, bye~ Thank you so much Great work, everyone ♥ (Great work, Yeji and Yuna ♥)
Great work, Yuna (Music Bank) Music~ Bank~ It's our third week! Third week! This is a live broadcast,
so after the transmission...! That's it~ for today~ (Yeji's eating salad ♥) I should eat a lot of veggies They said I should be close with veggies I think it tastes good They cut me off (The Shin Sisters are quarreling) (This is only Yuna's opinion)
The hair should smoke for it to stay curled (Quite easy on herself)
Oh? I think it looks okay These two took my place (Whiny Yuna)
I started it first and they all made fun of me saying, 'Is Yuna doing someone's
hair again?' They were gonna say, 'Can I try?' anyway (Humph! I'm hurt!) To the opposite side! Yeah, pull it! That's hilarious!
I look in the mirror and I'm like this! (MC Lia's Beauty Channel ☆)
Let me show you my Doraemon pouch - Does your skin feel dry?
- Yes But you didn't wash your hands, did you? Let's sanitize your hands first
and put on the hand cream Ma'am? You need to wipe your hands
even if you're sleepy (Firm) Who didn't brush their teeth? Ta-da★
I have this toothbrush sanitizer (MC Lia's showing off the latest hot item) Then does it get sanitized? Yes! Let me go brush my teeth with this (Caught off guard by her client) Foam cleanser Yuna's candy (What's Yuna's candy doing in there...?) And a mask! Cotton pads and Q-tips A large-sized lotion! Wet wipes, a bottled water And an accessory for my dog (Lia's pouch has everything) (Mom, I'm on TV)
And earphones These days, I'm in to wireless-- Could you not interrupt my show, please? Focus! You're the guest! (No one knew of her identity) Oh! This is the towel from our dorm I washed my hair in the morning
and wrapped my head with this towel And a wet towel could be like
a humidifier when it's dry (Substitute humidifier.mp4)
That was my big picture (ITZY is watching the broadcast!) (Not taking their eyes off until the end!) We did our best on stage today I hope MIDZY enjoyed it And we have more performances
left to do tomorrow So we're going to return to the office, monitor how we did,
and do a dance practice Great work today! Good job! (Colorful)
These are new spring colors It's our third week already Third week! ITZY did a great job
and so did MIDZY Let's work hard for the remaining
week and a half! Go! ITZY! MIDZY! Let's fly! (Music Core) Lia's cherry tomato (Ryujin's suddenly pulling a skit)
Honey~ What's up with your bangs? What? What are you doing? Geez, honey~ (2001 born members have taken to acting)
Oh, my god! Your hair's a mess!
Why didn't you come to me? You should've come sooner, honey~
We've been waiting for you (Another one searching for 'honey')
Oh, honey~ Who are you, baby? (Three honnies, lol)
Honey~ Oh, honey~ Today... We almost sound like... We sound like a bunch of hair experts (An expert at work) You look like the Drunken Master! (Sweet Ryujin is braiding Yuna's hair)
I think you're really dexterous Yeah, I'm totally dexterous (Ryujin's masterpiece!
What can't she do?) You've got golden hands You should call yourself 'Golden Hands'
from now on (☆★ Major accident ★☆) She broke that chair leg~ (Flustered)
No, I didn't! No!!! (Your misery is my happiness ★) This chair is missing a leg (The chair actually had detachable legs) Two people on our team have
very special hands Who's the other one? Her minus hands and Ryujin's golden hands Ryujin did this Ryujin's good with her hands One time, she came to my bed and said 'Do you want me to braid your hair?' (Getting rid of the evidence) (Avoiding the time of self-reflection) So this is my seat! That's my seat, friend
(In a gentle voice) (Obedient Yeji...★)
Then this is my seat! (ITZY's massaging each other) Wow! All you have to do is just sit here (Switching positions)
Now, do me Ow, that's too strong! Oh, okay! I'm sorry (Masseur Chaeryeong's legendary technique) Hey! Yuna kept insisting we get a massager (Chaeryeong, Yuna's massager)
but I guess you can massage her After dying my hair and
having it done in pigtails, I can... look really fierce But I think I do look good in pigtails No, it's not that When I'm dancing, I look more... Oh! This is perfect! See? Did you hear that? She said I'm perfect (lol) Today's outfit, my hair color... And do you see these square-shaped
glitters under my eyes? They all go great together Great~ Great~ (When the soul takes over the body) (Singing passionately) 'Mind your own business' ASMR Ver. (Work hard, play hard) (Professional Yeji's warming up
her throat as always ♥) (Blasting) (Perfectly in sync without
looking at each other) (An energetic start to the rehearsal)
Hello, we're ITZY! Nice to meet you! Today, we have a theme It's a little... (She wants to speak, and also monitor) A fierce-looking cat (They performed well on stage!)
Thank you! We were ITZY! In the third take,
my nose was running nonstop I think it was dripping at the end WANNABE, the end ♥ V^ㅁ^V I just ran during the dance break Where did you run? You go like this... and then like this But after I did this, I lost balance Good job, good job
(In a sweet voice) We just finished pre-recording
for Music Core We finished recording Music Core
in our third week of promotion - And we're all wearing black leather
- Right Cool pose! Three, two, one! We had to look fierce today Today's theme was 'fierce-looking cat'
Do you think you pulled it off? (Quick apology, quick acceptance)
I apologize I saw her smile happily!
'Me, me, me' Do it again (Chaeryeong's 'ME ME ME' Special.mp4)
Oh, she wants to show you 'Me, me, me' No, no, together Three, four! (Smoking ★) Say something to wrap this up Okay, then I'll be cheeky (Tough)
Everyone! Who are we? ITZY!!! Let's wrap up our last week ITZY style Great! Okay, go! ITZY! MIDZY! Let's fly! (Inkigayo) (The dressing room full of energy) (Very into it) (Perfect chemistry) (How an idol goes to fix her makeup) I'm here to fix my makeup (Getting ready for the stage!) What are you doing? Stretching! I need to warm up my back (Oh... My heart...★) Chaeryeong says she looks like
she's 20 years old today She's in a good mood because
she looks kind of 20 I've never worn a rider jacket before So this stage outfit is my first How do I look? (Hilarious) How do I look~? (Yuna appears!) (Even the way she stretches is cute...♡) Inkigayo Inkigayo's camera work gets
many different angles They also get the profile shots Thank you (The  stage started!) (The performed well on stage as always!) (Lia, the ending fairy ♥) (Awarded two weeks in a row from Inkigayo!)
Thank you~ (Getting a picture taken with the trophy★) It was such an honor to win 1st place
again at Inkigayo So we ate shave ice and did random speed dance Great work, everyone!
I'm sure MIDZY will be very happy, too Today was another fulfilling day Thank you so much, MIDZY ♥ We'll try to work even harder in the future MIDZY, I can't wait to see you guys Thank you so much for your hard work,
ITZY and MIDZY! We won 1st place today,
so let's do the WANNABE version We won 1st place for  ITZY! MIDZY! WANNABE! HOO! Great work~ Thank you~ 