This is my personal OnePlus 7 Pro. It started out as the Nebula Blue colored
version, but in the last video, I stripped the color from underneath the glass panel
so we can get a better look at the sweet internal mechanical pop up camera. In this video, I'm going to take the rest
of the phone apart and see how much water resistance, if any, OnePlus has added to the
phone. Without an official IP rating, the only way
to tell for sure if it's water resistant or not, is with a review from the inside. Let's get started. [Intro] From my original removal of the back glass
panel, we found a ton of adhesive, which holds the back glass in place and effectively seals
the back side of the phone making it water tight. But there are plenty of other holes we need
to look at, especially the large pop up camera hole at the top. If anything is vulnerable to liquid, it's
going to be that motorized camera. To get to the camera, we'll remove the 14
black Phillips head screws holding down the back plastics. I'll set the plastic panel off to the side,
and then unplug the non-red battery. I'm not mad at OnePlus, I'm just disappointed. There are 8 screws holding down the bottom
plastics. I'll remove those and then pull off the loud
speaker bottom plastic combo. It's a normal loudspeaker that gets it's power
and communication from the gold contact squares on the motherboard. The battery is easily removed. Thumbs up for that. With it's little red pull tab, it comes away
from the phone body without any prying or bending. I'd even vote that this system of battery
removal is better than the magic pull tabs. The battery's a 4,000 milliamp power capacity. I'll unplug some more ribbon cables, each
unsnapping like a little Lego. And I'll remove some of the wire cables on
the bottom right side, with two more wire cables over on the left. Three more screws hold down the motherboard,
but before I can shimmy the board out of the phone frame, we need to unplug the super long
front facing camera extension ribbon that folds and unfolds itself with each protrusion
and retraction of the pop up camera. Now that the motherboard is out, let's take
a look at the rear cameras. The motherboard does have thermal paste on
the back which connects to this copper square looking thing. This is unusual because OnePlus claims to
have a heat pipe and ten layer liquid cooling system in the OnePlus 7 Pro. We'll have to analyze that more in a second. In this triple camera system all mounted together
in the same metal housing, we have an ultra wide 16 megapixel camera with no OIS and no
video capabilities. Then a 48 megapixel main camera in the center
with OIS. And on the bottom we have a 3x 8 megapixel
telephoto zoom lens, which also has optical image stabilization. It's a solid camera setup. My Galaxy 8 Plus that I've been using for
over 2 years now, has a single lens. So these triple cameras are definitely appealing. This is the first phone in a while that's
tempted me into upgrading. I'll have to see what else comes out this
year because I probably will upgrade soon. The bottom board has three more of the Lego
style ribbon connectors, and then of course I can remove the SIM card tray with it's water
resistant red rubber ring around the opening. There is one last connection for the fingerprint
scanner ribbon in the center of the board. Then the whole thing can pull away from the
phone. The little USB-C charger has two more Philips
head screws holding it in place. This time it has a green rubber ring around
the tip. When the charging port is smashed into the
hole in the frame, that rubber ring keeps water from coming in. Here in the center of the phone, we also have
the little optical under screen fingerprint scanning camera. You can see the light from my phone shining
back through the fluid AMOLED display. It's pretty cool seeing how everything comes
together from the inside. I might be a little biased, but I appreciate
mobile technology so much more after seeing the internals. As far as water protection goes, we have the
mesh and rubber seal protecting the bottom loudspeaker port, which we've seen on other
phones, along with dual white microphone opening seals. And then a water damage indicator next to
the SIM card tray opening. All pretty standard. OnePlus might not have paid for the official
IP certification, but it does look like every opening is protected. But what about the super large opening up
at the top for that pop up camera? Is it water resistant? We'll have to remove the camera to find out. OnePlus stuck a large stand off screw in here. It's made from a very brittle metal alloy. I actually broke this screw into tiny little
bits during the live tear down at the OnePlus event in New York. The screw is not very sturdy. The motor itself though, is very sturdy. The gold contact pads are glued into the frame. There's one more screw up at the top of the
motor, and then the whole thing can pull out from the phone. This little stepper motor is fascinating. Good for about 300,000 lifts, it has a threaded
shaft that spins around each time the camera is activated. Then the camera unit rides up and down the
shaft each time it gets turned on. It's pretty awesome. The camera itself has one last silver bracket
holding it in place with two screws. This bracket keeps the camera from being pulled
up and out of the top of the phone from the outside. But now that the bracket is gone, the camera
can pull up and out of the phone from the outside. And this is it – a 16 megapixel motorized
pop up camera, which just like the charging port, has a rubber seal around the base, and
it's red. So whether the camera is opened or closed,
the red rubber seal should be in contact with the side walls, effectively keeping the water
from getting inside the phone. It's splash proof. Pretty ingenious design. I'm a fan of these motorized pop up cameras. I don't think motorized components are the
long term future proof solution for the bezel-less no notch displays, but I'm sure going to enjoy
them while they're here. Now normally I really like to assemble the
phone at this point, but OnePlus has put me in a predicament. They've claimed in their advertising that
they have a 10 layer liquid cooling system in the phone, and right now all I can see
is a square piece of copper. It's not exactly the same thing. Under the thermal paste and copper pad, we
get a glimpse of the heat pipe, but we didn't come this far just for a tease. The conundrum is that the heat pipe is under
the aluminum frame, so in order to unbury the heat pipe, we need to remove the screen,
which kills the screen. It looks like this phone isn't going back
together. Feel free to ignore the screen cracking. The screen of the OnePlus 7 Pro is impressive
all by itself. With the 90 Hertz refresh rate, it rivals
even the gaming phones on the market right now. When I finally get the screen separated from
the phone body, it's interesting to note that the AMOLED layer is not glued to the underside
of the glass like we've seen previously on smartphones, it's a separate unit and is extremely
flexible, kind of like paper. But we do finally get a glimpse of the rest
of the heat pipe with it's subtle curve horizontally across the phone body. Cutting it open does reveal the copper threads
that wick moisture from one end of the pipe to the other. I don't see any evaporation but with the super
small amounts of vapor inside of these pipes, it probably disappeared pretty quickly. It is super clean inside, unlike the dirty
pipes inside of Samsung and LG. So now we've found the heat pipe, but OnePlus
has been calling this a 10 layer liquid cooling system, but even if we count the metal over
the processor, the thermal paste weird copper square, and the heat pipe, that's only 4 layers. We can try to include the internal vapor,
copper wick, and other side of the pipe, which brings us to 7, and maybe toss in the aluminum
frame of the phone, which takes us to 8 layers. But from my perspective, this ten layer verbiage
sounds like marketing jargon. Keep in mind that manufacturers don't hand
out hardware repair guides with their phones, so I kind of just call it how I see it and
maybe I'm missing something. What do you think? Speaking of missing something, I almost forgot
about the vibrator. This time around it's a haptic motor, like
we've seen inside some of the iPhones, which supposedly puts out superior vibrations over
rotating mass motors. But I personally don't think there's a whole
lot of difference. A notification is kind of a notification. As a whole though, I'm pretty impressed with
the OnePlus 7 Pro. All the bells and whistles installed in this
thing for the price point that it has is amazing. Plus water resistance at every opening. I'm impressed. Other manufacturers charge hundreds of dollars
more for the exact same thing. I'm pretty sure this OnePlus 7 Pro will work
again once I get a new screen for it, since all the rest of the parts are fine. I'll be thoroughly testing the Grip in the
near future, so hit that subscribe button. Come hang out with me on Instagram and Twitter. And thanks a ton for watching. I'll see you around. 