“The gate…I opened it.” What if, instead of getting on a spaceship
and going home, E.T. stayed in suburbia
and became Elliott’s love interest? “E.T., I love you.” As wacky as that sounds, this is essentially the premise of
Stranger Things. And while it’s plain as day to see
Spielberg’s influence on the series, it’s worth digging
into the underlying psychology of this particular update
to the original inspiration: Why make the alien an object
of romantic and sexual attraction? “You look at her all, like,
‘Hi, El! El! El! El! I love you so much!’” In fact, this whole story
of monsters and upheaval, triggered by the arrival
of a strange girl, could be read as an allegory
for the onset of puberty. “I felt it everywhere. Everywhere.” When Eleven shows up,
the lives of four inexperienced boys are rocked by forces
they find both scary and awesome. “She’s our friend and she’s crazy!” And that take over their bodies, making them feel
they’re not the same people anymore. As the catalyst who introduces the kids
to this disturbing yet magnetic new reality,
Eleven is the symbol of puberty itself. “You’re blind— blind because you like
that a girl’s not grossed out by you.” And at the same time, she’s the character we watch
experience puberty most intensely. “And I never leave! Nothing ever happens!” So here’s our take on how Eleven’s arc can be read
as a parable of puberty, and how this brave
and unusual character shows us how to find power in even the most trying,
strange phases of life. So after you watch, tell us
which stories you want to see. Eleven is the ultimate ‘strange thing’
of the show’s title. “Do you think she's acting weird?” “You're asking if the weirdo
is acting weird?” When she shows up in season one, she is like an alien to Mike
and his friends. “I’ve just never seen a kid
with a tattoo before.” And the Duffer brothers actually told Millie Bobby Brown
to base her performance on E.T. There’s a pretty relatable metaphor
operating here: prepubescent boys easily might see girls
as if they’re another species. "We never would've upset you
if we knew you had superpowers." Small touches reinforce Eleven’s association
with the early cues of adolescence: she regularly bleeds, which is something
her peers haven’t seen before and which freaks everyone out. She causes boys to lose control
over themselves and their bodies. And she disrupts the social order, creating friction in
a same-sex friend group. "Because she's trying
to sabotage our mission. Because she's a traitor!" When the androgynous-looking
Eleven first meets the boys, she could easily be one of them. “You think you can steal from me, boy?” And it's noteworthy that she doesn't really see
any difference. She even starts taking off her shirt
in front of the guys, which sends them into a panic. “Over there? That’s the bathroom. Privacy. Get it?” So, while Eleven has been raised
more or less oblivious to any gender divide, it’s clearly ingrained
in the boys’ mindset, and they feel the need
to teach it to her. Eleven’s nickname, given to her by Mike, “Maybe we can call you ‘El.’ Short for Eleven.” sounds like the French word for ‘she,’ reinforcing that she represents
the feminine. Mike quickly gives her a makeover
to make her more girlish and distinguish her from the boys. “Pretty.” It’s striking that he takes
so much agency in shaping Eleven to match his idea
of what “a girl” is like. It’s as if she’s a blank slate he projects his conceptions
of sexuality onto– and that supports the sense
that she represents puberty in general here. “Do you like Eleven?” “What? No. Ew. Gross.” It’s significant, too, that Eleven’s arrival
coincides with Will’s disappearance. “Do you really think it was a coincidence
that we found her on Mirkwood, the same place where Will disappeared?” “That is weird” On one level,
it’s as if Will has been lost to, or taken over, by puberty. And he’s not the only young person whose life changes when
Eleven enters the fold– days later, Mike’s older sister Nancy
loses her virginity to Steve and Nancy’s best friend Barb
ends up in the Upside Down. “NANCY!” Eleven is the one who opens the gate
to the Upside Down, which feels like a metaphorical space
for the loneliness that can come with maturing for an adolescent. Our fear of the changes happening within
can alienate us from others. “He might get irritable. He might lash out” In the season 2 premiere,
the first sign that Will isn’t himself is when he starts to envision the arcade
he’s at with his friends turning into the Upside Down world– suddenly he’s all alone,
cold and unsure. Even though harmony is restored
and Will is eventually saved, the entrance of Eleven (or puberty) effectively ends the boys’
innocent, carefree childhood. The monsters she unleashes, by opening the gate, reflect
the dark, terrifying side of adolescence. And the monsters never really go away–
an individual beast can be defeated, but another always seems to show up
to take its place. “It’s almost more like a-a feeling.” Thus through the metaphorical space of the Upside Down and the suffering that this transition causes
Will and his friends, the series captures just how traumatic
the changes of puberty can be. And they articulate a sadness that— for all that's gained
with the access to a new world— something precious is also lost. "What matters is that
he is your best friend. And then this girl shows up
and starts living in your basement, and all you ever want to do
is pay attention to her." Eleven isn’t just a symbol
of the boys’ puberty, through her, we get to see
a girl’s experience of this phase. “GET OUT OF MY HEAD!” Eleven begins as a very unusual girl
who wants to be normal, and this is a feeling that puberty
brings out in all of us, as our rapid changes
might make us fear we’re freaks. “What’s wrong with you? What is wrong with you?” Like the innocent child before puberty, Eleven has grown up totally cut off from the larger world’s
cultural expectations. But she’s suddenly given
a new set of social rules. “You go to school dances
with someone that, you know, someone that you like” Without a mother figure to look up to, “Do I have a mother?” she’s fascinated by Nancy as a model of what it is
to be a teenage girl. “Pretty.” There’s also something inside Eleven that gravitates toward
typical teen girl things and feels excited by this new world. “You look beautiful.” One of the trickiest things
about this time of life is that these characters have
one foot in adolescence and one still in childhood. “Will wanted me to give him some space
so I’m giving him a few feet.” They’re on the border between
the Upside Down and our regular world. “You know when a view master—
when it gets like—” “Caught between two sides?” “Yeah, yeah like that. Like one side’s our world. And the other… the other slide is the Upside Down.” So to move more firmly toward maturity, Eleven has to take steps to assert
and differentiate herself, and to free herself from adult control. Increasingly frustrated
by her house arrest, she turns into the textbook
hormonal, irritable, impulsive teen. “I hate you!” The way she abuses her powers, when upset, is like a heightened version
of the average adolescent's mood swings. She acts out the typical teen rebellion-
blatantly disobeying Hopper’s house rules. “Rule number one:
always keep the curtains drawn” and running away to see
her long lost sister Kali, who brings out her punk side. “Bitchin’’” In this next stage of teenhood,
instead of trying so hard to blend in, she’s ready to stand out and express her feeling
of being a freak. “I'm just curious, you know, why all of a sudden you look like
some kind of MTV punk.” During this rebellious phase, she might remind us of
the title character of Carrie– another young woman
whose powers are fueled by her uncontrollable emotions and rage
at what she’s suffered. “[chants] Plug it up!” As Eleven leans into her darker side, she briefly considers going full Carrie
by using her abilities for violent revenge. “You hurt mama.” But unlike the social outcast Carrie, Eleven is motivated by the desire
to protect her friends. “There's nothing for you back there. They cannot save you, Jane.” “No. But I can save them.” who have always seen her difference
as a good thing. “So, do you think Eleven was born
with her powers, like the X-Men, or do you think she acquired them,
like Green Lantern?” So there’s a message here that all those things
we find weird about ourselves and are tempted to hide,
are actually cool– as long as we surround ourselves with
the right people, who get that. "And besides,
why do we even need weapons anyway? We have her." "She shut one door!" "With her mind!" For a long time, Eleven views her powers
like a dark curse– echoing how teen girls
tend to internalize hatred and disgust for their bodies. “We’re looking for some stupid monster. But did you ever stop to think that
maybe she’s the monster?” Her supernatural abilities
are mixed up with pain and anger
at the trauma she’s experienced— just as a teen's
great developing adult potential can coincide with
dark feelings and confusion. But when Eleven finds a way
to use her powers for good, they no longer
make her feel so monstrous. “I’m the monster.” “No, no El, you’re not the monster. You saved me” “I can do it.” So she embodies how young women need to find
an outlet for their emotions. “I want you to find
something from your life. Something that angers you. Now channel it.” to channel whatever rage or frustration
they feel into something that gives them self-worth. “Her physical therapist taught her
to channel all her rage into sports.” It’s symbolic that in season two
she closes the gate, which resembles a wound, alluding to her vision of Dr. Brenner. "You have a wound, Eleven,
a terrible wound.” So the best thing
about Eleven’s powers is that she can use them to heal herself. In other words, by embracing and not fearing
what’s weird and scary within us, we can empower ourselves. “What you can do is incredible. It makes you very special, Jane” We can be strong enough to face and process where
the confusion and shame come from to work through those feelings,
instead of letting them eat us alive. “They won’t understand.” “Eleven would.” “She would?” “Yeah, she always did.” “If we’re both going crazy,
we’ll go crazy together, right?” “Yeah, crazy together.” Stranger Things puts forward
the argument that friendship is the antidote to
the pain and confusion of puberty. “What is ‘friend?’” “Is she serious?” “Um, a friend is—” “—Someone that you’d do anything for.” In season two, the Shadow Monster
can only live in cold temperatures. “He likes it cold.” And this coldness it desires
really symbolizes isolation. In the end, Joyce and Jonathan use heat
to exorcise the monster out of Will— but the other source of warmth, in this scene, is the love of the family and friends
gathered around his bedside. Likewise, Eleven finds salvation
in her new group of friends who become her chosen family. “I never gave up on you.” And the show offers
an optimistic vision of relationships during this phase of life— Eleven and her friends
figure out how to navigate these new challenges together “Do you wanna dance?” “I don't know how.” “I don't either. Do you want to figure it out?” As the person who opens
the gate to the Upside Down and the only one
with the power to close it, Eleven is the bridge between two worlds. Just like puberty itself, she brings a lot of discomfort
and unwanted change for kids who thought they were fine as they were. “You hurt me. Do you understand?” But, as her story shows, there are also amazing things
that come along with the bad— like a new sense of
autonomy and identity, the introduction to
adult adventures and pleasures, and the kinds of firsts that we remember
for the rest of our lives. Even though her appearance causes
a rupture in the established order, it ends up making everyone's lives
more interesting and deep in surprising ways. “She’s basically a wizard.” “She has superpowers.” “More like a yoda.” We may not all be so lucky
in our experiences of puberty to find such amazing friends— and for some of us,
that feeling that the girls or boys you like are ‘aliens’
may stick around for a while. “And plus she skateboards,
so she's pretty awesome.” “Awesome? You haven't even spoken
a word to her.” “I don't have to. I mean, look at her.” But we can look to Eleven
for perspective on how to survive, not just puberty,
but any difficult transition. “I can fight.” “Better than any of us.” She offers us the playbook for how
to slay the monsters that terrify us: Build unbreakable friendships, “Friends don’t lie.” channel our painful emotions
into healing ourselves, “No more” and know that our own strangeness
is our ultimate superpower. "She's a weirdo." "Why does that matter? The X-Men are weirdoes." 