on cruise control. [PAGES SHUFFLE] I'm from a suburban
town in Maryland, and I've been living in Europe--
first France, now Spain-- for almost 4 years now. I wasn't raised in a
McMansion but definitely in a green lawn suburb,
where the pantry overflowed with prepackaged foods
and bottled waters. Our central air was
always freezing in summer, and I drove pretty
much everywhere, including to the gym, where I
would sit on a stationary bike. And when I moved
into my apartment in a medium-sized city,
takeout was a frequent reality, as was meeting at bars
instead of people's houses. I know all these things are
common, if not universal, for most people I
know from America. Or at least those who grew up
middle to upper middle class. And I think we can
all agree that we could stand to cut back
on some of the things that we think we need. I feel like we don't often
question our way of life, or realize just how often we
deem things necessities when they're actually luxuries. And, for me, that
mentality really changed when I started
living in Europe and confronting my lifestyles. It's been amazing for my
finances and overall happiness to let go of things I realized
I don't need, or treat them like the luxuries
they actually are. Since moving overseas, here
are the seven biggest things that I realized
I no longer need. Number 1, everyday
professional makeup. When I lived in America,
like many women, I wasn't necessarily on the
Instagram contouring level of flawless makeup, but I
definitely did the full routine every day-- foundation, mascara,
bronzer, lipstick, eye shadow, et cetera-- and I felt like
I couldn't be taken seriously or feel beautiful if I didn't. When I first moved to
Europe, it took me a while to get used to being a more
natural version of myself and pare down my morning routine
to something more manageable. My daily routine is now
just mascara, lipstick, and out the door. And I feel so much more
comfortable in my skin. Instead of just feeling
beautiful when I'm dolled up and ugly when I'm not, I feel
like myself at all times-- imperfect but lovely. Number 2, air conditioning. Here in Spain, it
gets hot as hell, yet I get along just
fine without AC. I don't melt, I don't
get heat stroke, and I am very much
used to the feeling of being hot in the summer. The thing is, once you accept
that this is just what summer feels like, you come to
embrace it in its own way and don't mind it
the way you used to. My summers are no longer
a desperate search for AC because I've tweaked my
understanding of normal. Number 3, meat with every meal. Like many Americans,
I used to think that meat was the center of
my meal, around which the rest of the dish would turn. But now I've shifted to
a more balanced diet, with meals focused on
vegetables, grains, and starches. Meat is a more treasured treat. I'm not vegetarian or vegan,
but I probably eat meat about four times a week now. That means I buy higher-quality
meat in smaller quantities. I love stopping by the
butcher to grab whatever looks good that
day and make myself a special dinner with it. It's much better for my
waistline and my wallet. Number 4, recipe-based shopping. This is probably cliche
to say but living here has gotten me into cooking in
a way I never was in America. I now think in
terms of ingredients rather than finished foods. I look at my cabinet and see
what I already have components for. And then I go to the grocery
store or market and look for items on sale that I
can get a ton of use out of. In America, on the other hand,
I would look up a recipe first and shop for it specifically,
often throwing out some of the ingredients
after only a week. But my new start from
scratch way of thinking means I treat my
kitchen as something to be emptied before
it's refilled. Number 5, a car. Now I don't live in
the center of a city, and my most common
form of transport is a bus, which
could have easily been the case when I lived
back in suburban Maryland. But when I was
there, the solution of car to get everywhere
was just the obvious one, and I thought it would be
weird or sad to actually take the bus or bike everywhere. Now I generally do a
combination of the two depending on the weather. This means I save an enormous
amount of money every month on the expenses of owning a car. And I also have cut out
my gym membership budget because my exercise comes
from biking and walking a ton every day. Not owning a car is a completely
possible choice in many places, but it's one I didn't consider
making until I moved here. Number 6, a future house. Probably the biggest
mental shift for me has gone from seeing a house
with a yard in the suburbs as the ultimate goal of
adult property ownership living situation to
a wasteful thing. First of all, lawns are
bad for the environment, and commutes are bad
for mental health. But, beyond that, a
house is more space than I need, and
I'm more than happy living in my current
situation, which is a duplex with a little garden. It's why I moved to this
outskirt in the first place. But, living here, I've
realized that the trade-off of not having all the space
or property I don't use means that I'm a quick
jaunt from museums, culture, and the vibrancy of the city. Since I moved to Europe, I've
realized my goal is ultimately to have just what I need,
and to especially not create a huge commute in my life simply
to have a giant green patch of land I claim as my own. It may be the American
way for everyone I grew up with, but, as with
everything else on this list, it's not that way
for me any more. 