[MUSIC PLAYING] PBS Digital Studios. Conservation laws are among
the most important tools in physics. They feel as fundamental
as you can get. And yet, they're
wrong, or at least, they're only right sometimes. These laws are consequences of
a much deeper, more fundamental principle. Noether's theorem. [MUSIC PLAYING] Conservation laws are the
cheat codes of physics. They make it possible to
solve physics problems that would otherwise be painfully
difficult or even impossible. More than cheat codes,
conservation laws are clues to the source code. They emerge from profound
and simple truths about the basis of reality. They emerge from the fundamental
symmetries of nature. The connection between
conservation laws and symmetry is encapsulated in
Noether's theorem. But before we dive into this
extremely elegant idea, let's talk about the seeming
paradox that inspired it and the genius
who discovered it. When it was published in 1915,
Einstein's general theory of relativity opened as many
questions as it answered. Among them is the
fact that energy is not always conserved
in general relativity. The simplest example
of this is the case of cosmological redshift. As the universe
expands, light traveling through that expanding
space is stretched out. Its wavelength increases. And so the energy of
each photon drops. Where does the energy from
red-shifted photons go? In 1915, the expansion
of the universe hadn't yet been discovered. But the failure of
energy conservation was still clear from the
math of general relativity. Two of the greats of the era,
David Hilbert and Felix Klein, sought the help of a young
mathematician Emmy Noether to understand this
seeming paradox. She discovered why the law
of conservation of energy broke down in
general relativity. The law was not
fundamental after all. She realized that
all conservation laws arise from a more fundamental
relationship, which we call Noether's theorem. A simple expression of
Noether's theorem is this. For every continuous
symmetry of the universe, there exists a
conserved quantity. Let's unpack this. First, what do we
mean by symmetry? Actually, first,
what don't we mean? We say a face is symmetric if
it looks the same under a mirror reflection. Snowflakes are symmetric
under 60-degree rotation-- playing cards under a
180-degree rotation. But these are what we call
discrete symmetries-- single flips around one axis or
rotation by specific amounts. Noether's theorem applies
to continuous symmetries. Something is
continuously symmetric if it stays the same for
any size shift in a given coordinate. For example, a long road
in the middle of nowhere is continuously symmetric
under spatial translations in the direction of the road. A perfect sphere is
continuously symmetric under rotational translations. In both cases, the
environment stays the same for shifts along the
symmetric coordinate. In the case of
Noether's theorem, when we say the
environment stays the same, we mean the equations that
give the laws of motion for the system. For example, moving along
a perfectly flat road, the downward force of
gravity stays constant. We have symmetry to
spatial translation. And Noether's theorem
tells us there's a corresponding
conserved quantity. That quantity is momentum. If two cars collide
on that road, the sum of their combined
momentum stays the same. But what if the road is hilly? Momentum doesn't
appear to be conserved. It can be lost or gained
to the gravitational field. This is because the direction
of the gravitational field changes with
respect to the road. It's not symmetric to
translations along the road. On the other hand, the
gravitational field across the whole
stretch of road doesn't change from one point
in time to the next. The system is symmetric
to time translations. It doesn't matter when
the collision happens, the results are the same. Noether's theorem reveals that
this time translation symmetry gives us energy conservation. And the last classic
example, if the factors driving the laws of motion
are symmetric under rotation-- for example, the
spherically-symmetric gravitational field experienced
by a satellite orbiting the earth-- then, Noether's theorem predicts
another conserved quantity, angular momentum. By revealing the underlying
source of conservation laws, Noether's theorem
handily explains when and why they are broken. That includes the
apparent breaking of conservation of energy
in general relativity. See, Einstein's
description of gravity reveals the dimensions
of space and time to be dynamic and changeable. If the very nature of
space can change over time, then continuous time
symmetry is broken. That's the case with
the expanding universe. Energy can be lost in the
case of cosmological redshift, and it can be
created from nowhere in the case of dark energy. The law of
conservation of energy is fundamental in
Newtonian mechanics, in which space and time
are unvarying and eternal. But in Einstein's universe,
energy conservation is only valid as a special case. It only applies for
parts of the universe where we can approximate
space as unchanging over time. However, it is possible
to use Noether's theorem to come up with an analogous
quantity that is conserved. That quantity is the rather
esoteric Landau-Lifshitz pseudotensor. It saves energy conservation
by incorporating the entire universe's
gravitational potential energy to offset the seeming
gains or losses to redshift in dark energy. This quantity is,
however, controversial in its application and
in its interpretation. It's also worth
an entire episode. So I'll leave it alone for now. Despite its profound
implications, the math behind
Noether's theorem is surprisingly straightforward. It falls like magic out
of another deep lore of the universe-- the principle of
least action, which states that the
universe will always choose the path between
two states that minimizes the change in the action. This is a rather
abstract quantity that measures the
effort involved in moving between two states
over some time interval. It's a generalization of
Fermat's principle, which states that light
will always take the path between two points
that minimizes the travel time. The principle of least action
extends Fermat's principal to any object moving on any
path or indeed any system quantum-mechanical
to cosmological evolving between two states. The principle of
least action can be used to derive
the laws of motion from the equations of
classical mechanics to Feynman's path integral
formulation of quantum mechanics. In a sense, the
principle is axiomatic. It's a founding assumption
behind these derivations, and it's also the
founding assumption behind Noether's theorem. However, as a
founding assumption, that is as close to as
fundamental as we can get. Noether's allows
us to figure out the true conserved quantities
for any system that's evolving according to the
principle of least action. As long as we can identify
that system's symmetries, this is useful in
cosmology, but it's also useful in quantum physics. The general nature
of the theorem means we can apply it to
not just the symmetries in the dimensions of space and
time, but also to more abstract coordinates. For example, another
conserved quantity in physics is electric charge. Noether's theorem
tells us that there should be a corresponding
symmetry of nature, and there is. That symmetry is the phase
of the quantum field. You can rotate the complex phase
of an oscillation in a quantum field by any amount, and
the observable properties of that field, like its
particles, don't change. This symmetry leads to the
conservation of electric charge and electric current. This quantum symmetry
is just the simplest of a large number of symmetries
exhibited by quantum fields, the so-called gauge symmetries. They predict a rich family
of conserved charges that govern the interactions
of the particles of the standard model. For example, the color charge
of quantum chromodynamics describes the strong interaction
between quarks and gluons. The entire standard
model of particle physics is what we call a gauge theory. It's founded on the fundamental
symmetries of quantum fields. It's going to take a
few episodes to explain exactly what these
symmetries really are and how they lead to the family
of particles and interactions that make up our universe. And we'll jump into
that before too long. Emmy Noether was one of
the greatest mathematicians of the golden age
of modern physics. Yet, she gained little public
recognition in her time and is still only known
to the more eager students of math and physics. During her life,
she was repeatedly refused any paid academic
position due to her gender, until late in her career. Hermann Weyl, also a giant in
the mathematical foundation of quantum mechanics, said
in her memorial address, I was ashamed to occupy such a
preferred position beside her whom I knew to be my
superior as a mathematician in many respects. Einstein also
called her a genius. Her contributions
to mathematics, particularly abstract algebra,
redefined entire fields. Let's be thankful
that she took a moment to offer a little of
her genius to physics, taking us a big step
closer to understanding the fundamental
workings of the universe through the continuous
symmetries of "Space Time." As always, thanks to all of our
Patreon supporters that helped keep us explaining the universe. And this week, an extra
huge shout out to "Big Bang" supporter Fabrice Eap. Fabrice, your continuously
time-symmetric contributions are fundamental to the
conservation of "Space Time." So thank you. Last week, we talked about
the incredible wealth of data dropped by
the Gaia and mission. You guys had a ton to say. Superuser asks how Gaia
compares to the upcoming LSST. So the large synoptic
survey telescope will indeed be revolutionary. It does have some
overlap with Gaia in that it will
measure light curves, so it changes in
brightness over time for billions of objects
across the entire sky. But Gaia is really optimized
for extreme astrometry-- phenomenally accurate
position data that actually allows
measurements of velocities. LSST won't do as well
in that regard, in part because it's on the ground, in
the Atacaman Andes, in Chile, rather than in space. But LSST will see much
further and fainter than Gaia. It has a 35-square
meter collecting area, compared to Gaia's
0.7 square meters. It will find more small
solar system objects, detect the effects of
weak gravitational lensing in distant galaxies, and
see more distant supernovae, monitoring more distant
quasars for their flickering. In general, it'll do better
in what we call the time domain by scanning the
entire sky every few nights, and it'll keep coming back,
and back, and back to measure changing brightnesses at
high-time resolution over 10 years. Simon Clarkston
asks how Gaia can take such precise measurements. Surely, it's camera doesn't
have pixels this small. It's good insight, Simon. Gaia's precision is plus or
minus 0.3 milliarcseconds-- as we mentioned, the width of
a hair at 1,000 kilometers. Yet, it pixels are
only 60 milliarcseconds on their shortest dimension. It can do better than that
off the bat by analyzing the way the light
from each star spreads into neighboring
pixels by fitting the so-called point
spread function. But its extreme
precision is possible because it comes back to
every field many times over the five years
of its operation. Each time, stars will
have moved slightly, but they'll have moved in
extremely predictable ways. By fitting laws of motion to
the stars' five-year trajectory, there's only a very narrow
trajectory of extremely precise locations that ends up working. Nebularium asks whether what
dwarf's is the correct plural, rather than what
dwarves with a v. Well, to quote Tolkien's 1937 "Forward
to the Hobbit," in English, the only correct plural
of dwarf is dwarfs, and the adjective is dwarfish. In this story,
dwarves and dwarvish are used but only when
speaking of the ancient people to whom Thorin Oakenshield
and his companions belonged. You could also check Appendix
F in Lord of the Rings. Seriously people,
on "Space Time," we only ask that you start
with a passing familiarity with quantum physics and
the etymological foundations of the languages
of Middle-earth. Please do your
assigned readings. 