Online presence. Okay. I think this is going pretty well so far. Sara: "I know they seem so nice!" I Think this really has the potential to be a real friendship. Sara: "I know this is going so much better than I thought" Except the whole gluten-free thing and you made banana bread! Sara: "I said I was sorry!" Josh: "Is everything okay over there?" Yes, we're fine! Sara: "Really fine!" Josh: "Yeah" Okay, its decision time which game do we want to play Settlers of Catan or exploding kittens? Sara: "Well one is really fun and one is really strategic." What kind of people do you think that they are? Sara: "Do they even like games?" Let's just flip a coin You know people wonder when you truly know for certain that you're an adult and and I think it's the first time you feel like It's literally impossible to make new friends Look, I know that some people have a harder time making friends growing up than others, but it's like when you're younger you're just You're with people your age. They're everywhere. They're at school, They're in the neighborhood, They're at church. You don't have to make much of an effort. But then one day They're not anymore. Suddenly, You have to put forth an effort, you want to see people. What I'm saying is: introverts, Don't worry, it gets better when you get older. See when you become an adult You don't just call up another adult like they do on the show Friends and say, "Hey, Do you want to hang out?" it becomes much more complicated. There's--there's just more to consider Like is this a good use of my time? I work today. Is this really how I want to spend my evening before I inevitably have to go spend another 8 hours of my life at work Tomorrow? So there's more pressure once you're actually hanging out It's an added weight to it, you know? And there's no promise that you'll see these people again, you could blow it! Josh: "Hey, how much longer do you want to stay?" Kelli: "I don't know, like half an hour? I kinda wanted to watch some Netflix before I go to bed." Josh: "Yeah, that sounds good" Kelli: "Ok." Kelli: "What are they doing?" Josh: "Uh, well earlier, they were flipping a coin but now it looks like they're praying" There are just so many excuses not to hang out with people I mean people will get married which means that you have to connect with not just one person but Double the people now. It's a big jump. And then people start having kids which means you'll never see them again unless you have kids too. So let's start having babies. And there just aren't that many places to meet people when you're an adult. So unless you make a concerted effort to put yourself out there Netflix will slowly cradle you to your grave one lonely night at a time, but making a concerted effort feels weird because again it's hard to just Call someone up and ask if they want to hang out as an adult. You feel like you need some excuse to justify it I can't explain why it's this way but it is. Josh: "Hello?" Oh, hey, man We would you know, we're wondering if maybe you guys wanted to hang out tonight. Josh: "Oh, oh why is something going on?" We don't have any friends. Josh: "Oh that's sad, uh Sure. Sure. We'll come over sure." Oh, okay. Great Boy that hurt but that sure did work Obviously, there isn't an easy fix to this problem I know but I have three suggestions that might help make friendship easier once you hit the adulthood stage When you're young, you can just hang out with anyone. When you're older, It requires more effort to stay friends with anyone in less you need some common ground So find a group that does something you enjoy and get plugged into it Okay, get plugged. in the church, it's a church term. Friendship are not going to fall in your lap as an adult. That's the hard truth. Okay, you have to work for this now. Look guys friends come in three forms. You have friends These are the people you know. You have good friends These are the people who company you really enjoy and then you have best friends And these are people who you don't have to worry about what you're gonna do when you hang out you're not really scared to eat In front of them. These people become much more rare the older you get So if you find people that you can connect with, hang on to them. Work at it, make it a priority Okay, and number three this is the best advice of all, okay that's a joke, but it's also not because you'll actually make lots of great friends I know we have Josh off-camera: "Wow" Wow. It's true though It's America's number one comedy, Adults Watch as these four lovable losers try and navigate a game night. It's the show critics are calling fun, Relevant, hip, edgy Groundbreaking, a good time, hip, a good time, four stars Don't miss out on the number one show it's called Adults 