Hey what's going on guys? So today we are tackling how you can learn new
skills incredibly quickly. Over the course of this video, I'm gonna share a four step process that you can use to take any skill, whether it's related to
school or your future career, or whether it's just a fun
one like guitar or cooking, and break that skill down so that you can learn
as much as you need to about the most important parts and then start practicing them effectively so you can gain basic
proficiency really really fast. Now this process we're gonna talk about applies to any skill, because at its core, skill development, whether
it's really physical like basketball or whether it's really
mental like mathematics, it's all learning. As you intake information about the skill, and as you practice it, you're forging new neural
pathways in your brain, you're connecting them
with other neural pathways, and you're strengthening them over time. As you do this, you move though what's
called the three stage model or skill acquisition, which starts with the cognitive stage where you're just
learning about the skill, and you're just forming
those neural pathways. Then moves into the associative stage where you're doing a lot more practice, and now you're able to
sort of self reflect and pick out mistakes and change things based on those mistakes. And eventually you move
into the autonomous stage. At that point you have mastered the skill, and it's basically able
to be done automatically. And this autonomous phase takes a really long time to get to. Mastery takes a lot of hours of practice. But that doesn't mean
you're doomed to spend dozens of hours in the beginning phases, because if you know how
to structure the learning and the practice processes the right way, you can make a surprising
amount of progress in a very very short period of time. In fact, in his book The First 20 Hours, author Josh Kaufman
argues that you can learn basic proficiency in almost
any skill that exists in under 20 hours of dedicated practice. And his process for doing this breaks down to a series of four distinct steps. And in a second we're
gonna go over those steps, but first I wanna issue
you a bit of a challenge. If you're sitting there
watching this video, and you have a skill you've
been wanting to learn, use this framework to create
a plan for doing that. Once the video's over, take out a piece of
paper and create a plan going through each of the steps, and then start putting it into action. So the first step in Kaufman's process is to deconstruct the skill. Basically you break it down
into its component parts, and then you prioritize those parts based on your particular
goals within that skill area. Now to give you an example let's talk about playing the guitar. A lot of people want to play the guitar, but there are lots of different
ways to play the guitar. There's tons of different musical genres, you might want to just
play a few different songs, or maybe you want to be like Slash or like DragonForce guitarists and be rippin' solos all day long, right? These are very different skills. So, by breaking it down
into individual sub-skills, chords, scales, picking technique, reading tabs, understanding
musical intervals, you end up with a list of building blocks that you can then prioritize
and take action on. The second step in Kaufman's process is the education step. Basically at this point you
want to take each sub-skill that you've prioritized
and learn enough about it that you can practice well and identify your
mistakes and self-correct. Now notice I said enough
about each sub-skill, not as much as you can
about each sub-skill. Because I know personally
I'm the kind of guy who will walk into Barnes & Noble and look at every single book on the shelf related to what I'm interested in, and think, I should buy
every single one here and read them all before getting started. And that's just not how good
skill development works, especially if you want to do it quickly. You need to learn just
enough about each sub-skill so that you can start practicing, getting your hands dirty,
and making mistakes, because then you're gonna
know what you should correct. Alright, step number three in the process is to eliminate any
potential barriers to success or barriers to your
progress and your practice. And in my mind, the most likely thing
that's gonna get in the way of your practice is a lack of
motivation in the long-term. So, find a way to motivate
yourself on a constant basis. Maybe it's having an
accountability partner, maybe it's joining a
forum where you can talk about your interest, or maybe it's just making a record of every single day you practice so you can see a chain developing that you don't want to break. Alright, so skill has been deconstructed, learning has been done, and barriers have been sliced
in half with a samurai sword. We are now on the fourth and
final step of the process which is simply to practice deliberately. In The First 20 Hours, Josh Kaufman's rule is that you
should practice deliberately until you've achieved your
goals for each sub-skill that you prioritized, or until you've hit 20
hours of dedicated practice. And what he recommends is that you actually practice
by using a timer or a clock, and track the amount of hours you put in. Because when you're practicing
something difficult, it can be really really
easy to overestimate how much time you spend practicing. Now that we've gotten through
the four step process, I want to give you a few additional tips you can use to make your
skill development journey even more successful. And the first one is to identify the work of somebody who is a master or somebody who is where you want to be. Analyze that work as best as you can, and then try to imitate it. Now a lot of people are gonna say, this is copying, this
is ripping people off, but actually as long as
you're not passing off this work as your own, this is how a lot of
people learn their skills. And in fact in Japanese martial arts, there's a concept called shuhari that is exactly this. And in music, it's the same. The famous jazz trumpet player Clark Terry believed that imitation was in fact an essential part of
becoming a great musician. And he told his students
that music learning happens in a three stage process, which he called imitate,
assimilate, and innovate. Here's what he said about
the role of imitation. "By imitating the players you love, "you'll begin to understand the music "on a deeper level and begin
to see a personal sound "develop in your own
approach to improvisation. "Questions that can't be answered "by music theory or etude books, "like how to play longer
lines or how to articulate "and swing, will reveal
themselves as you start "to imitate the masters." Part of the reason this
tactic works so well is it gives you a method
to go way way beyond your comfort zone and your
current level of skill. Because if you can take
something that a master made, and you can analyze it from every angle, you can probably recreate
certain aspects of it even if you don't know
exactly what you're doing or why you're doing it. Then later on as you're kinda
backfilling your knowledge by learning the theory
and all the fundamentals, you're gonna be able to say, oh that's why I did that,
or that's how I did that. I didn't understand it at
first, but now I get it. And I kind of have like
a rung to pull myself up because I did that work
in the first place. The Stanford mathematics
professor Ravi Vakil called it backfilling. And here's how he described
it in terms of mathematics. "mathematics is so rich and infinite "that it is impossible to
learn it systematically, "and if you wait to master one topic "before moving on to the next, "you'll never get anywhere. "Instead, you'll have
tendrils of knowledge "extending far from your comfort zone. "Then you can later backfill
from these tendrils, "and extend your comfort zone." Of course, another way
to learn from the masters is to simply be taught by them. Which is why another way
you can really accelerate your skill development process is by finding a teacher
or a coach or a course that you can take. Now I know from personal experience, having a coach or somebody
who can tell you your mistakes is probably the most
valuable thing in the world. But you don't have to let
geography be a limiting factor in your access to teachers because there are 100s
of 1000s of tutorials and online courses that
you can use for basically any skill that you're trying to learn. Before we end this video though, I've got three additional tips for you. And all three of them relate to making your practice sessions more effective and more useful. The first one is find a way to record some of the practice you do. Now you don't have to record all of it, but recording some of
it is gonna allow you to analyze your performance, see the mistakes you're making, and make improvements. And this is something my skating coach actually told me to do. She said bring your iPhone to the rink, set it up on a tripod, and film yourself practicing the moves you have to practice for the competition. Because if you can't
see what you're doing, you don't really know
how to make improvements. My friend Martin also does
this with Spanish practice. One thing he does is
have an impromptu speech in Spanish with his webcam, so that way he can go back
and analyze his accent, his rate of speech, if he
made any grammatical errors, et cetera. Secondly, if you want to
accelerate your development process and actually get good, you need to make time for hyperfocused and honestly lengthy practice sessions. Now I was gonna say when
I was writing this script that you could just do 20 minutes a day or 10 minutes a day of practice, as long as it was consistent. But when I got to thinking, I couldn't think of a
single skill that I have that I'm proud of, that
I think I'm truly good at where I just put in 10 minutes a day or 20 minutes a day of practice. I mean, After Effects, public
speaking, skateboarding, figure skating, all the things
I think I'm pretty good at, I spend hours and hours of practice on. And each individual session
was honestly quite lengthy. And lastly, as you practice
you want to vary up the stakes. When you're learning a new sub-skill, you want to start with low stakes where you're in a very
low stress situation, there's not much of a
threat of consequence. And then move to higher stakes situations where there is some pressure. And video game design is
a perfect example of this, because if you analyze
almost any video game, as it teaches the player a new skill, it usually gives them a space where there's some isolated practice. Where you can basically practice the skill with not much else going
on, very little threats, the opponents aren't hitting back. And then, once you've
gotten it down there, you move it into an actual situation where the opponents do hit back or when things are happening faster and when there's very low margin for error or there's some consequences. If you look at real word skills, this principle applies just as well. I mean look at learning a new language. When you know absolutely nothing, you need some low stress
periods to drill flashcards, or learn vocabulary, but then to really up your skills and solidify what you've learned, you might do something like
scheduling a conversation with somebody on Skype or even
going to a foreign country and talking with people face-to-face. Now I know we went over
a ton of different tips in this video, and because of that there
might be a temptation for you to wait for a perfect moment to start building your skill when you can plan everything out, when you can integrate every single tip, but if you take nothing
else away from this video, just take this away. The best time to start
learning a skill is now, even if you have an imperfect
implementation plan, even if you start really slowly. If you can start making some mistakes, start learning some initial foundational pieces of that skill, that's gonna help you
build into the future. So whatever it is,
whatever you want to learn, something career focused,
something totally fun, make a plan for implementing it, use that four step process, and then just get started. Once again, I want to give a
big thank you to Skillshare for sponsoring this video. This is actually my first sponsored video, so let me know what you thought about it in the comments down below. But I'm a big fan of
Skillshare personally, so it was a no-brainer for me. And if you want to try it, once again you can try that
link in the description below for three months of unlimited
use for just 99 cents. Or if you're on the site, you can use the promo code
beard when you sign up, because hey it's me. Beyond that, if you enjoyed this video, I'd love to hear what you thought about it in the comments down below. Definitely ask me
questions if you have them, and I'll try to get 'em
answered in future videos or in the comments themselves. And also if you enjoyed this video, give it a like to support this channel. You can subscribe right there if you want to get new
videos very single week on being more productive and improving your learning capabilities. Or you can click right down there if you want to watch another video. See you in the next one. 