This video is not about what the longest train
is. I mean, like, it’s not about the longest
physical train. The reason the video is about this and not
this is because the answer to this is quite boring. It’s this one. It was 4.5 miles long. Great, fascinating, right? Let’s move on. If you’ve watched any of these videos you
know that you’re not getting the answer to what the longest train journey is right
off the bat because it’s not that simple! There’s different categories and criteria
and little minutia that I just need to explain. Namely, it’s really really hard to run a
train super long distances. You see, here’s a map. Every different color on this map represents
a different track gauge in a different country. Much like different countries have different
plug types and currencies and driving directions and measurement systems, the railroads of
different countries have different widths of tracks. Previous testing has proven that trains don’t
work well off the track so the trains of any given country only work in certain countries. This can create some difficulties. You’ll notice, on the map, that Spain and
Portugal have a different gauge than the rest of Europe. Finland does too but that’s just Finland
being Finland. The supposed reason for Spain’s different
gauge, and this is not a joke, was so that the French couldn’t invade by train, but
nowadays, the Spanish might actually want to go to France and up until recently, they
couldn’t… at least not by train… without changing trains. Spain built some high speed lines in the standard
gauge that France uses from the major cities to France so you can now take a direct train,
for example, from Madrid and Barcelona to Paris, but in other areas, on the non high-speed
lines, you can’t cross the border by train. If you want to take a train from Biarritz
to San Sebastian, for example, you’re out of luck because the Spanish tracks are 9.17
inches wider than the French ones so you have to take the train to Hendaye, walk all the
way across this bridge, then catch the train from Irun, or you could just take the bus. Now, you can actually switch the gauges of
trains but it’s massively inconvenient. At best it takes hours for a full-length passenger
train, but some trains, like the legendary trans-Siberian service from Moscow to Beijing,
do exactly this. This train stops at the Mongolian-Chinese
border for four hours while its reconfigured for the thinner Chinese tracks. As it turns out, by doing this, this train
is the third longest passenger service in the world spanning 5,582 miles over six days. But just for some fun, let’s do a rapid
fire round of the longest passenger train services by country. In the United States its the 65 hour, 2,700
mile trip from Chicago to Los Angeles; in the United Kingdom its the 13 hour, 720 mile
trip from Aberdeen to Penzance; in Canada its the 86 hour, 2,770 mile trip from Toronto
to Vancouver; in Australia its the 65 hour, 2,700 miles trip from Sydney to Perth; and
finally in India, its the 80 hour, 2,660 mile trip from Kannyakumari to Dibrugarh. However, the world’s second longest train
service is, big surprise, also in Russia! It’s also a trans-Siberian service from
Moscow to Vladivostok in 144 hours and 5,772 miles, but the longest train goes to the least
friendly Korea in the world—North Korea. You see, the longest train service in the
world isn’t really a full train—it’s this train carriage. The North Korean State Railway runs this service
from Pyongyang to Moscow by sending this sleeper car north to the border with Russia and then
attaching it to the Russian train from Vladivostok to Moscow. This is technically a direct service since
you never leave the carriage for those 206 hours and 6,380 miles which makes this, definitely,
the longest passenger train service in the world. But of course, there’s a reason I keep saying
“passenger” because there are longer cargo services. China, in an effort to improve connectivity
with the west, has started running cargo trains directly to Europe, and these aren’t just
for show. There’s a legitimate place for cargo trains
as a medium-speed service between super fast cargo planes, which take about 12 hours to
get to the UK, and cargo ships, which take 30 days to get to the UK. This 7,500 mile trip from Yiwu, China to London,
England via to the channel tunnel takes about 18 days to complete and can definitely be
called the longest current direct train service in the world. 