The setup for the twins paradox is as follows
– suppose I sit on earth while you head off on a rocketship at a constant speed for
a while, then turn around and come back. We know that moving things experience time
more slowly, so I'll think that when you get back, you should be younger than me. But from your perspective, the earth (with
me on it) is doing the moving, receding and then returning, so you think that I should
be younger than you. Who's right? We'll use the fact that time rotates to sort
this all out. Ok, so from my perspective, every second that
passes I stay in the same place, while every second that passes, you get farther away,
and then closer. Simple enough. From my perspective, you'll take ten seconds
to get back. And since you're moving, I'll think that time
is passing more slowly for you, so I'll calculate that your journey, for you, takes eight seconds. Now – and this is the important bit – since
you're moving, what you think of as the forward direction of time will be rotated relative
to _my_ perception of time. So on your outward journey, the seconds will
tick away like this. And on your return journey, the seconds will
look like this. From your perspective, your journey does indeed
take eight seconds! But almost immediately, we also see the solution
to the twins paradox: right here. This bit of my time is unaccounted for by
you. During your entire journey, you'll think that
time is passing more slowly for me than for you (and indeed it is – here, and here,
add up to only 6.4 seconds), but because of your change in velocity when you turn around
to come home, your notion of time rotates and skips right over a large swath of my time. Which amounts to precisely – you guessed
it – the missing 3.6 seconds. And this is the resolution to the twins paradox:
because you changed velocity, your notion of simultaneous times rotates, so your accounting
of how time passes in parts of the universe far away from you will have gaps in it. Well, in reality it wouldn't have gaps, because
you couldn't instantaneously change direction – you'd have to fire your rockets to start
heading home, and during that acceleration your notion of time would have very very quickly
rotated through the missing gap in my journey, allowing you to properly account for the missing
time. In summary: during your outward and return
journeys, ten seconds would pass for me, and I'd calculate eight seconds as passing for
you. Eight seconds _would_ pass for you, and you'd
calculate 6.4 seconds as passing for me during your outward and return journeys, and 3.6
seconds as passing for me during your acceleration (even if it was basically instantaneous). So we both agree that when you come home,
you'll be younger! And indeed, this is what happens when you
send an atomic clock flying around in in an airplane: it records less time as having passed
than a twin atomic clock that stays on the ground. PS the time rotations I've been talking about
are actually called "Lorentz Transformations", and they're the way that most working physicists
think about special relativity and things like time dilation, relativistic doppler shifts,
and so on. Trying to understand relativity just by using
basic equations for time dilation and length contraction (like is often done in beginning
physics classes) will often lead to confusing apparent contradictions, because they don't
take into account the full changing of simultaneity 