- Hey, what is goin' on guys? So do you ever feel like
there's just no point to reading productivity and
self-improvement articles. I mean, you pull it up, you read it or scan through it. You get vaguely motivated
for 10 minutes or so, but after that, it really does
nothing to change your life, and all these articles,
even though they purport to be really, really helpful, don't actually seem to be helping. Well, that's what I
wanna talk about today. I wanna talk about how to
actually use the productivity tips and the self-improvement
advice that you read. And to start out, I want to
share one of my favorite quotes in the world, which
comes from Derek Sivers who is a writer and who is also the guy who founded CDBaby.com and subsequently sold it
for millions of dollars about 20 years ago. The quote goes like this,
"If more information "was the answer then
we'd all be billionaires "with perfect abs." And I think that today this quote is more poignant than it's ever been, because we now have unprecedented
access to information and more specifically
self-improvement advice. 50 years ago people
probably had the odd copy of How to Win Friends and Influence People sittin' on their bookshelves, but now in less than 30 seconds you can bombard your eyes
with more productivity tips and life hacks than you can handle. And literally right now someone's probably publishing another one of those articles about 47 Habits that will
Make 2019 Your Best Year Ever. And don't forget that number 18 will literally blow your mind. But again, if you're like most people you probably scan through that article and then proceed to do
absolutely nothing with it. I remember a time back in college when a teacher of mine was lamenting a very similar problem
in one of my classes. He said, "If I have a
hundred students in this room "probably only 75 are actually going "to pay attention to what I'm saying. "And of those 75 people,
probably 20 of them "will remember what I said
after the test is over, "and of that group, maybe one or two "will actually apply
it over the long-term." The fact of the matter is very few people actually use the information
that they intake. And the problem is
exacerbated on the internet, because there's just so
much of it going around. There's so much to take
in and you can feel absolutely overwhelmed when you read these kinds of articles or
watch these kinds of videos. So that begs the question. How do you make sure that you are among that group of one or two people who actually applies the information and makes meaningful
improvements in your life? Today I wanna share a process that can help you do that. So here's how to actually
use the productivity tips that you find on channels like mine or anywhere else on the internet. Step number one, find
the one problem or goal that you wanna solve above
all others and prioritize it. As the author Greg McKeown talks about in his excellent book, Essentialism, a true priority is singular. You need to make a decision here, and note that decision originally comes from a Latin word
meaning, to cut off. You need to pick one path right
now and cut off the others. Now, note that this
isn't a permanent choice. You can change your priorities later. And it also doesn't mean that you can't be working on more than one thing at once. But to make notably progress quickly, you wanna know ahead of time,
which one is most important. Otherwise, you're gonna run
into that all too common part of the day where
you have very little time or energy left over, but you still have to read and meditate, (person screaming) and exercise and practice guitar as well. And then you don't really
know which one to cut. So by setting a priority
and by knowing the answer to that question of which
one is most important beforehand, you're gonna
save yourself a lot of time and a lot of dead ends. All right, so once you've
decided on your priority, it's now time to go out
and try to find resources or tutorials and guides that can help you make that goal a reality. And if you're a beginner it
can be a really good idea to go out and find
somebody else's tutorial, or somebody else's tips
and follow them exactly. But if they don't work, then you don't wanna reject them outright. Instead you wanna distill
down their basic concepts and then try to use
those concepts in a way that works for you to adapt them. So, for example, let's say that I tell you that I get up every morning really early and I read for an hour. And you wanna do the same, but you have class or work
really early in the morning and you just can't make that
work with your sleep schedule. Well realize that the point here, is that I'm carving out a
specific time in the day where no one can interrupt me, where I can actually
make that reading happen, not that I'm doing it in the morning. So how could you work
with your own schedule, in your own constraints
to gain that same benefit? Maybe instead of in the morning you read after lunch, or after school. The specific way that I'm
implementing the technique often isn't the point. So you look a little bit
deeper and find the logic behind why I'm doing what I'm doing, and then adapt it your
own specific situation. Case in point, the
third step of my process has a specific prescribed number in it. Because I think a really
great way to build a habit and to actually put a
productivity technique into action is to do a 30-day challenge around it. To do this, you wanna find a
way to break your goal down into measurable steps, and then take at least one of those steps
every single day for 30 days. And while you do this,
you also wanna keep track of your progress on a calendar
or habit-tracking app, or whatever else works for you. I've had some great results
doing challenges like this. For one, on Instagram last year, I did a challenge called CIG30DAY, where I made sure to do
some intense exercise every single day for 30 days
and put it on Instagram. And doing that helped me
get back into the habit of doing intense exercise
on a daily basis, which I'd fallen out of at the time. And for another example,
that actually tweaks the concept a little bit,
a couple of years ago I gave myself a three-month
reading challenge where everyday for three months I had to read 25 pages
of a nonfiction book. I could not fail, otherwise, I'd have to pay my best friend, Martin, $100.00 and I didn't. And it also helped me to build a really strong reading
habit going forward. Now I do wanna give you a couple of tips for doing this successfully. First it can be a really good idea to decide beforehand what part of the day you're going to practice your habit or take the steps you decided to take. When you decide beforehand,
when you make a plan, like I'm gonna do it in the morning, or I'm gonna do it before bed, then you often find that your motivation to do it is a lot higher. There's a concrete plan up in your head. Secondly, at least in the beginning, make your steps small and input based, meaning that they can be accomplished with just an input of time or effort instead of a specific outcome. So, for example, if your
goal is to write a novel, then a beginning step
that's probably gonna be pretty difficult to accomplish each day is write an entire chapter. But something that's definitely doable, is write 100 words or even 500 words. That brings us to the
fourth step in the process which is this, don't wait for
the perfect time to start. Instead, just get started now. Even if there's a
constraint, just start now. Realize that the time at
which you get the idea or the motivation to do
something is the time where you're gonna be the
most excited to get started. So even if you're going on
vacation in two days from now or you have a bunch of homework to do, if you can carve out the time to do those beginning
steps, then start right now. Take advantage of that initial motivation and the novelty factor that you're experiencing in the moment. Also, right in the beginning find a way to keep yourself accountable. Again you can mark
things off on a calendar. You can use a habit-tracking app or you can even keep a journal. And if you need an extra push, it can be a really good
idea to ask somebody who cares about you, maybe
a friend or your parents or even a teacher, to be
an accountability partner, to at least review your entries or ask you from time to
time how you're doin'. Finally, have a way to review
your progress yourself. And remember the 30-day challenge or any similar commitment
device isn't the goal in itself. It's just a device to
help you build the habits and actually make progress, but there should be a
larger overarching goal, something that you want
to eventually achieve. So at regular intervals, sit
down and review your progress. Ask yourself is doing what I'm doing now, even if it's been working
really well for 30 days, is it actually getting
me any closer to my goal? If I've been writing 500 words a day, do these 500 words even matter? Do I need to shift gears now and actually start editing what I've written down, or should I keep forging ahead. And even if things are going well, you should still continue to write down your progress at regular intervals. Because by doing this,
you're going to get a record of your successes which
can help to motivate you on any particularly
difficult days in the future or on the next time your read
a productivity tips article that makes you wanna switch gears and go do something entirely different. And by successfully
avoiding that temptation and keeping your motivation
levels high through these reviews you will continue to actually make progress on your goals. So like I mentioned earlier in the video, one of the methods that I've
used to actually spur action is the 30-day challenge. Things like my 30-day
challenge exercise challenge, or my reading challenge. These types of challenges are a great way to get started on
something, to stay motivated and to see significant progress in a relatively short amount of time. and thank you for watching as well. Hopefully this video in
particular was helpful. Hopefully it helps you to
cut through all the clutter and actually start making some progress, and if you enjoyed it,
definitely hit that like button and get subscribed right there, so you don't miss out on future
videos when they come out. You can also click right
there and get a free copy of my book on how to earn better grades, and also join my weekly newsletter
or click right over here to get one more video on this channel. Last but not least, if you wanna listen to our latest podcast episode, you can check that out right over here. Thanks again for watching and I will see you in the next video. 