“Whatever it takes.” ‘Avengers: Endgame’ is
a meditation on time – and it leaves us with
a fittingly age-old message: that we should cherish the moments
we have on this earth with our loved ones. As Tony Stark puts it,
quoting his father to his father, “No amount of money ever bought
a second of time.” In the wake of Thanos’ finger snap,
we see the original Avengers revisiting the sites of their past adventures
in order to collect the infinity stones, before Thanos did,
in a ‘time heist’. Along the way they confront
important people from their pasts and even former versions of themselves. And the movie arrives at some
intriguingly counterintuitive conclusions – like that, to move forward,
we need to dig deep into our past instead of just letting it go,
and that the end of the journey isn’t necessarily something to fear,
if we’ve lived our lives to the fullest. "Pepper I've been called many things,
nostalgic is not one of them.” So here’s our take on
the movie’s deeper message about making the most
of the time we have. “Are you ready for our dance?” So click the link in our description below
to get a full month of Mubi for free. We live in a world where we’re told
to only look forward, “The world has changed,
and none of us can go back.” but ‘Endgame’ sends us a message
that flies in the face of that: when we’re struggling,
we have to look back at the past and dwell on it. “Some people move on,
but not us.” Viewers might have gone into ‘Endgame’
expecting the movie to quickly undo the damage of Thanos’ deadly snap,
but one of the filmmakers’ boldest choices is letting five years pass after
the destruction of half of all life. “Thanos wiped out 50%
of all living creatures.” This reminds us of the truth
that time makes things real. In the moments immediately
following a trauma, the event feels surreal, “What is this,
what the hell is happening?” yet as time passes,
we’re forced to accept and process the event as reality. The Avengers feel the lasting absence
of their loved ones, and now that these years have been lived,
even if the Avengers somehow manage to bring the lost people back,
this devastating event cannot be erased. “We lost friends, we lost family,
we lost a part of ourselves.” Tony is committed to his future, his life with Pepper
and their daughter Morgan, yet that doesn’t make him
any less haunted by the loss of
his son figure, Peter Parker. So this reveals that we can’t only
look ahead in order to feel whole, we have to allow ourselves
to look back as well. Thanos mocks the Avengers
for focusing on what’s been lost instead of what could be. “You could not live with your own failure,
where did that bring you? Back to me.” This is, in classic Thanos fashion, the kind of rhetoric
that sounds good in theory but is terrible in practice. In the end, our heroes’ inability to move
on turns out to be a good thing: their stubbornness leads them
to figure out how to go back in time. “Even if there's a small chance,
I mean we owe this to everyone who's not in this room to try.” So how does time travel
work in ‘Endgame’? Put simply, when the Avengers
go into the past and change events, this appears to create alternate timelines. Thus, just as the time travel doesn’t erase
those five years for the people left behind, creating new futures in the past
doesn’t undo other timelines that have already been lived. It’s important here that nothing
can actually undo what has already been. Still, ‘Endgame’s’ joking allusions
to ‘Back to the Future’
and ‘Hot Tub Time Machine’ are a winking nod to let us know
that we don’t need to focus too seriously on how this all works. Scott Lang races through his idea
with his mouth full of sandwich, while Tony solves the technological aspect
almost without trying. What’s far more important to the story
is the symbolism of the time travel. Confronting the past here is made literal
– as we see when Captain America
fights his past self and Nebula kills her former self. These scenes highlight that
our past selves are not us, they’re very different people due to
the experiences we’ve been through that they haven’t yet had. Think of the way Present-Day Cap
dismisses his past-self’s catchphrase, “I could do this all day.” looking on his former self as a
simpler, more naive person. And when he gets on the elevator
with the men from SHIELD, in a callback to the famous scene
from ‘The Winter Soldier’, he knows exactly what to say
to infiltrate Hydra. So the hard lesson he learned years ago
ends up being extremely valuable – which reveals that
our past mistakes and failures are necessary to
getting us where we are. The other interesting aspect of
‘Endgame’s’ film references is that the characters conclude
‘Back to the Future’ got it wrong: changing the past doesn’t change the future
because when you go into the past, that past becomes your future. This has a very interesting symbolism,
namely, that our way to the future is via the past. When Tony and Cap go back
to the 1970s army base where Cap had his training
in ‘The First Avenger’, each sees the one person
whose absence has shaped them – Tony’s father Howard
and Cap’s love Peggy. As Howard shares his nerves
about becoming a father, Tony, who’s now a father himself,
comes to see his dad as a human being, who was fallible and failed,
not some malicious God-like entity he needs to keep resenting. This releases a rush of love in Tony
and frees him to declare, “Looking back,
I just remember the good stuff.” The conversation shows how much
the two men are alike, but also that Tony is better than his father,
who, as Howard admits himself, never let the greater good
outweigh his self-interest, which is exactly what we see Tony do. Meanwhile Cap finds himself
one room away from Peggy and this breaks down whatever barriers
he’s put up to convince himself he’s over her. Moreover, being so close to what he wants gives him hope that it’s possible
to be with her again – and this is why he takes four Pym Particles
instead of the two needed for him and Tony to finish their time travel journey. The lesson of this episode
in the 70s is that by facing and confronting
the unresolved pain in our past, we can free ourselves, whether that means
letting go of past grievances, or grabbing onto something
that we can’t accept losing. Many fans predicted that Cap would
sacrifice himself in ‘Endgame’, which would be in keeping with his identity
as the moral center of the MCU, while Tony would retire
to enjoy family life with Pepper. But it’s the reverse –
Tony gives his life in battle, and Cap takes a detour while
returning the infinity stones and gets to live a long, full life with Peggy. These two central Avengers
have always been at odds, so it’s fitting that they end up
with inverse fates. Still, through them both
the movie sends the same message – we have to use our time well. Endgame pulls off a pretty amazing feat
in making us feel Tony’s death in a positive, life-affirming way. Before this we get glimpses
of what it would be like to lose the MCU’s founding father – first when Thanos stabs him in ‘Infinity
War’, and then again at the start of ‘Endgame’ when he’s near death in space. "Oxygen will run out tomorrow morning,
that'll be it".” In both of these scenes
the prospect of his death feels tragic, because it would be in vain,
he hasn’t yet done what he needs to do. “I can’t help everybody.” “Sort of seems like you can.” In ‘Infinity War’, Doctor Strange reveals
that the only possible outcome
where the Avengers win needs Tony alive, “There was no other way.” and in ‘Endgame’,
Strange holds up one finger to subtly let Tony know
that only he can defeat Thanos. Just as we foresaw in
our One Marvelous Scene video about the Tony versus
Thanos fight in ‘Infinity War’, Tony is crucial in this fight
because he doesn’t try to defeat Thanos
with more brute strength, which will never be enough. Like we talked about,
the beauty of Tony Stark is his ability to find
the way around the problem. Sure enough in ‘Endgame’, Tony,
in the crucial moment, doesn’t take Thanos’ gauntlet,
which is what the supervillain expects, but sees that all he has to do
is steal the stones. Summoning the strength for the snap
that destroys Thanos kills Tony, but this time, even if it breaks our hearts,
Tony’s death feels right, because it serves a purpose. His sacrifice to save everyone else
is a reversal of the vision that’s haunted him since Age of Ultron. “I watched my friends die. You'd think that'd be
as bad as it gets, right? Nope. It wasn't the worst part.” “The worst part...
is that you didn't.” He’s achieved what he needed to on his terms
and that’s why as he dies, Pepper tells him,
“You can rest now.” Tony’s fate is the perfect culmination of
his arc because it reveals that, while he’s the guy who’d cut the wire,
at the same time he also is the guy to make the sacrifice play. “You're not the guy to make the sacrifice
play, to lay down on a wire and let the other guy crawl over you.” “I think I would just cut the wire.” At his funeral we see the arc reactor
Pepper gave him that says, “Proof that Tony Stark has a heart.” Tony’s heart has been the center
of this story from the beginning, as he’s progressed from isolated playboy
to loving family man. ‘Endgame’ emphasizes how many lives
Tony has touched when we see pretty much all the characters from the MCU
gathered at his funeral, even an older Harley,
the kid he befriends in ‘Iron Man 3’. So we have to marvel at all the good
that’s come from this one man discovering his own heart. “All this came from that.” In the end, Tony and Cap’s fates
actually are quite similar. Because lest we forget,
Cap also sacrificed himself for the greater good many years before: “This thing’s moving too fast
and it’s heading for New York. I gotta put her in the water.” And at the end,
when we see Cap as an old man with a life well-lived behind him,
his end feels right, too – he finally got that time
he was cheated out of. “I had a date.” The dance with Peggy feels like
a reward for this character who’s done nothing but
put others before himself – which is why, like Tony,
he’s earned a little rest. It’s satisfying to see
Cap as an old man, too, because underneath
his younger appearance, this is the generation he’s always
belonged to and represented – a classic era of American history. Through the ends of both Tony and Cap,
‘Endgame’ tells us aging and even death aren’t truly sad if we’ve made
the most of our time here. As Cap realizes, we just have to
‘get a life’ while we still can. “As maybe the world's leading authority
on waiting too long, don't.” ‘Endgame’ is the harvest
of the first decade of the MCU. In this film, seeds that were
planted years ago finally bear fruit, from call-backs to iconic lines, “I am Iron Man.” “Don’t do anything stupid
until I get back.” “How can I? You’re taking all the stupid with you.” “Don’t say it. Don’t you say it.” “On your left.” “Come on!” “I could do this all day.” to Stan Lee’s final cameo,
to the iconic circle shot from The Avengers. Some moments are
references to the comics, too – like Cap saying ‘Hail Hydra’, and Sam getting the Captain America shield. We finally get the satisfaction
of hearing Cap say, “Avengers assemble.” after this was only teased in ‘Age of Ultron’. “Avengers…” We see the broken shield that
also appeared in Tony’s vision. While there’s no post-credits scene,
there is a sound of clanging metal that many are interpreting as a tribute
to Tony forging his suit in ‘Iron Man’. The scene of Black Widow and Hawkeye
enthusiastically fighting each other to sacrifice themselves is a warm inversion
of the wrong-feeling scene in ‘Infinity War’ where Thanos kills Gamora. Black Widow’s death here
also makes sense because it calls back to
Hawkeye originally saving her. “I got on SHIELD's radar in a bad way. Agent Barton was sent to kill me,
he made a different call.” And her act enables Hawkeye
to return to his family, which is a counter to Tony’s
having to leave his family behind. Tony gives Cap his shield back,
after making him drop it during their conflict in ‘Civil War’. And to everyone’s delight,
Cap reveals that he’s worthy of wielding Thor’s hammer,
Mjolnir. “Whosoever holds of this hammer, if he be worthy, shall possess
the power of Thor.” In ‘Age of Ultron’ he could
only move it a little bit, but it was enough to get
this reaction from Thor, who in ‘Endgame’ shouts, “I knew it!” Fans have theorized that
in ‘Age of Ultron’ Cap wasn’t worthy because he hadn’t yet told Tony the truth
about Bucky killing Tony’s parents, “Did you know?” “Yes.” or he may not have been
truly trying at the party because it wasn’t for the right reason. But perhaps most centrally,
Cap has become his most worthy self as he’s grown to accept more complexity
and grey in his worldview, while staying true to the greatest ideals
he’s always served. “For as long as I can remember,
I just wanted to do what was right. I guess I'm not quite sure
what that is anymore.” Tony and Pepper’s daughter is named Morgan,
which was foreshadowed in ‘Infinity War’ when Tony shared his dream of parenthood. “We named him after your eccentric uncle. What was his name? Morgan. Morgan.” And the hologram message
he leaves for her calls back to the video
Howard leaves in ‘Iron Man 2’. “My greatest creation is you.” Like Tony, Morgan will grow up
with an absent father, but hopefully she’ll remember
her father’s great love and affection, as captured in his recording’s final words
to her, “I love you 3,000.” At the end when Happy asks Morgan
what she wants to eat and she says, “Cheeseburgers.” this heart-wrenching moment reminds us
of Tony’s love of the food. “I want an American cheeseburger.” There’s an interesting set-up here of a daughter who will
carry on her dad’s legacy – and hopefully, in addition to loving burgers,
some other aspects of Tony’s personality, too. So ‘Endgame’ is paying homage
to where Marvel has been in order to prepare us
for where it’s going. The last scene of the movie shows
Cap and Peggy dancing to a song that’s fittingly called
‘It’s Been a Long, Long Time’ which we also heard in The Winter Soldier. [music playing] This dance has been
on Cap’s mind for years. “I might even, when this is all over,
go dancing.” “Then what are we waiting for?” “The right partner.” “I’m gonna need a rain check
on that dance.” “Well, I couldn't leave my best girl. Not when she owes me a dance.” The emotional payoff of this moment
comes from the fact that it’s nearly a decade in the making. We have to wait,
to invest years in 22 movies, for a scene to be able
to touch us like that. We’re conditioned to favor beginnings
and dread endings, but through ‘Endgame’ we see that: “Part of the journey is the end.” As ‘Endgame’ delivers
the resolution to everything the MCU has been building
towards since its inception, it shows the moving, soul-touching depth
an ending can have that a beginning just can’t. Likewise, in our own lives we create meaning
by sharing lasting bonds and putting time with loved ones first. It’s only at the end of the road
that we’ll get the satisfaction of reaping the harvests of our lives. And it’s important,
before we get there, to plant the seeds well. So as this phase of the MCU wraps up, we’re left thinking of
what Tony tells his loved ones in the message he leaves behind –
that we should remember this in celebration. We can’t stop things from ending,
but we can take steps to ensure that when that ending comes, we’re at peace with
what we made of the time we had, and all we feel is gratitude. “Do you know how short life is?” Hi guys, this is Alanni and today
I want to talk to you about 