[coughing sounds]
This is how COVID-19 is spread. Through air currents, potentially carrying
microscopic droplets full of coronavirus. When we talk. Breathe. Or cough. We can see this thanks to an imaging technique
that lets us peer into the invisible world of airflow. And using this same technique, we can see
if masks really do help to stop the spread Hey smart people, Joe here. If you’ve been feeling confused about masks,
what they do, what they don’t do, and whether or not you should wear one – I hope this
video will help. And since I’m all by myself at the moment,
I don’t need to wear this. Or this. This is Matthew Staymates, a fluid dynamicist
and mechanical engineer at the National Institute of Standards and Technology. And while stuck at home he turned his garage
into a lab. Using a technique called schlieren imaging
he captured some incredible images of a world invisible to our eyes. If you’ve ever seen wavering distortions
above a hot road, that fluttery mirage happens because different temperatures and densities
of air bend light in different ways, like a fluid lens. And when we talk, warm air streams out of
our mouths meeting the sea of colder air around us. A schlieren setup lets us see these tiny differences. A narrow source of light is bounced off a
concave mirror towards a camera, with a thin metal blade blocking some of the focused light. As that light interacts with air in the space
between, it’s bent in ever-so-slightly different ways, creating shadows and bright spots in
the final image. As you can see in this Veritasium video from
my friend Derek, it lets us see everything from shockwaves to heat rising off a candle. And at 250 frames per second, it shows us
exactly why masks work to slow airborne infection. Now, it’s important to remember that we
can’t see viral particles in these images. They are too small. But the viruses are carried on that breath
just like a river carries fish. In fact, an individual viral particle is smaller
than the weave of most fabrics. So why does this work? Well, masks help in two interesting ways. First, it’s important to understand that
viruses don’t float around alone. They fly out in droplets of moisture. Most droplets are heavy enough that they fall
within 2 meters or so, but any person or object within that distance can get bathed in virus. And without a mask, some of those droplets
can evaporate into super tiny particles of infection that can float on air currents far
from your mouth or nose, and these microdroplets are extremely hard for any mask to filter
out. But with a mask on, in the warm, humid space
between your mouth and the mask, those larger droplets don’t have time to evaporate, and
they can be captured by common fabrics. If it feels hot and humid in here, that means
it’s working. And the second way masks work, is that any
droplets that do get through now have less momentum. The air currents disperse in eddies and swirls
instead of flowing away in streams, which means droplets won’t travel as far. So, which mask is the best mask? If it seems like recommendations change all
the time, that’s because doctors and scientists know more now than they did months ago. And they will know more months from now, than
they do today. Which is exactly how science is supposed to
work. What we do know is whether you’re using
a bandana, an N95 mask, or a cloth mask you sewed at home, they all still have a lot of
droplet-blocking power. But that mask has to fit. This is almost like not wearing a mask at
all. A mask that’s too tight, or has too many
thick layers can actually force more air out the sides. A good test is to see if you can blow a candle
out through your mask from about 1 foot away. [blowing] These schlieren images are clear evidence
that masks are effective. But the best science relies on multiple lines
of evidence. Here's an experiment that we did with a person
talking through a sheet of laser light, illuminating all of the microdroplets released as we speak. With a mask, those droplets are all caught. And this microbiologist sneezed, sang, talked,
and coughed over petri dishes. A simple mask blocked nearly all of the germs,
and even though this experiment detected bacteria and not viruses, they both leave our airway
in the same respiratory droplets. It should be pretty clear to you now why masks
work, and the body of research that proves that is getting stronger all the time. Links down in the description! But really, the most important question is
why should you wear a mask? You know, it’s often said that masks aren’t
to keep you from getting sick, but to keep you from getting others sick. Wearing a mask can dramatically reduce the
chance of spreading COVID. But that’s a strange thing to think about,
because you might think “Well, I’m not sick, I’ve got a strong immune system…
so I don’t need to wear this.” But we know that COVID-19 can go undetected,
and almost half of infections may come from people who don’t show symptoms. That could be you. Or it could be the person next to you. And if it is, wouldn’t you want them wearing
a mask? They probably feel the same way about you. Can masks harm your health, like lowering
your body’s oxygen levels? No, that’s a myth, and it’s been tested
over and over again by healthcare workers who work all day in masks. And masks won't stop the pandemic on their
own. They’re best used in combination with other
safety measures, like handwashing and physical distancing. Stereotypically "macho" people have actually
been shown to resist masks more. I get it: Dudes, you don’t feel cool, even
though lots of cool dudes wear masks. Or maybe your nose itches, and your glasses
fog up, your face is sweaty. No fun. I get it. For most people wearing masks is new, and
weird, and different. But there are lots of things that used to
be weird and different, until everyone just started doing them. I mean umbrellas used to be viewed as completely
feminine accessories for rich people, and only to shade the sun. Until one day some masculine men decided they
were tired of getting rained on and suddenly enough people were using umbrellas that they
became like the most boring, socially acceptable thing ever. It's true, look it up. Most people didn’t use condoms in sexual
relationships until the risks of HIV and other infections pushed people to change their behavior,
and now it’s not only normal, it’s a way to say I respect you, and I want to protect
both of us. This is also a sign you want to protect others
and have them protect you. And the sooner that this becomes part of everyone’s
normal, everyday life, the sooner we can all get back to normal, everyday life. In every pandemic in history, it’s the actions
and choices of individual people that have made the difference. A mask can stop a virus, but it also sends
a message: We’re all in this together. And that’s something we all need to hear
right now and every day. Stay curious. Thanks for watching this video and I hope
that you'll send it to somebody that you know that needs to hear this message. But remember, what we know from social psychology
is that shaming people into wearing masks, that's not going to work. SO come at it with an open mind and an open
heart, and we can all do this together. See you next time. 