This video is brought to you by Dashlane. Get 30 days of a convenient and safe internet
experience with the link down bellow. AMD Zen or Zen+ APUs. They are so thoroughly dominating the entry-level
new parts market that I am honestly a bit worried and hoping the new Intel architecture
can compete. But for consumers, that means that for now
there is a very cheap set of options for building a gaming pc with competent integrated graphics
on a socket that is easily upgradable. Of those components, the Athlon line has been
the one I have focused more on for obvious reasons. At just $50 they tend to be the cheapest way
to get into gaming if you are buying new components and avoiding the used market. This is no secret, I use Athlon APUs so much
that it literally seems to have become part of my internet reputation. On more mainstream pc gaming circles, however,
these parts get a bit of a rep. For example, recently Linus from Linus Tech
Tips tackled this issue and while he gave the Athlon a fair chance he ended in some
of the conclusions Take a look at what you are giving up Compared to what we would consider to be the best bang per buck chip on the market The AMD Ryzen 5 3600 A Ryzen 3600. A 200 EURO CPU. WHY? Now I love Linus. I say this very honestly. We all look up to him in different ways and I am really looking forward to going to LTX
this year. And I think this is less: LINUS IS WRONG And more of a certain lack of perspective,
a lack that is rather common on forums and discord conversations I see around so I can
perfectly use this as an example. So. Why should you use a dual-core $50 Athlon
APU instead of something with better "bang for buck" like the six-core $85 Ryzen 1600 AF or the... *sigh*... the $200 Ryzen 3600? The answer is... context. Let's me show you something: When I was thinking about this I talked to
my friend and Spanish speaking tech YouTuber Nate Gentile that I wanted to make an experiment
on his channel to prove this point. You can see the full video linked in the description
and if you see me using lots of clips with this background, this is why: Let's consider 4 countries on which to build
a PC: Spain, where I live, Chile, Mexico and Argentina. When considering PC building in different
countries it is important to consider how 50 Euro does not feel like 50 Euros on every
single place. Average monthly income is useless as a measurement
of common salaries, these numbers will appear stupidly high or low if you are in any of
these countries, but they are useful as a tool for relative comparisons! And so, you can see that these developing
countries tend to have lower the purchasing power than I would have in Spain so for Mexico
my $50 could feel $80 or more. Keep that in mind. Let's make a build list for the cheapest gaming
PC possible using new components: Case? Literally, the cheapest available when I checked
in all the options. Is this a not very sturdy, not fantastically
made piece of plastic and metal? Correct Would you just be more efficient putting the
build in a box? Possible if you are crafty enough and you
can get the airflow working. Can you spend $10 more and get a case with
proper cable management? Eh... At this level, something as small as $10 could
make the difference between meeting a budget or not and remember, purchase power changes
between countries so that difference could feel like double. RAM? Interestingly enough most 8 GB dual-channel
kits are usually labelled as gaming and hiked up in price. Lucky for us if you search in each of the
countries for the cheapest 4 GB DDR4 stick and then buy two it will work just great. Do not concede to the temptation of buying
a single cheap 8 GB stick even if it sounds faster. Since integrated graphics use RAM and video
memory if you are running on single-channel you might run into bandwidth issues that might be the
difference between 26 FPS and 30 FPS in some games and at this level that is a huge deal. Now, Motherboard and Power supply. So... something that I have learned is that
if you are going to Overclock (and believe me, you are going to want to Overclock this
thing) ideally you need a high quality and stable power supply and a good motherboard
to filter that voltage. We do not have the budget for that so realistically
we can either do an ok motherboard and "eh" power supply or the other way around. The cheapest chipset than can do am4 overclocking
is b350 so I recommend you get the cheapest b350 you can find in your country as long
as it has a heatsink along the VRM, that should be enough to filter stable enough
voltage for the Overclock we will do. Often this was found for around the equivalent
of 60 to 80 Euros in all my test countries. As for the Power supply... there are a lot
of options with suspiciously low prices which I highly, highly encourage you to avoid. My rule of thumb is usually to buy the cheapest
with at least some level of certification, which in all of my test cases was around 40
Euros. This is not exactly a guarantee of quality,
only a bit of a better chance not to end with something that burns itself. Power supplies at this level our terribly
inefficient so be sure to get something with 500 W or more because in practice you are
going to get way less and it often will not allow you to overclock the maximum your CPU
can do but as long as you avoid these you can make do if you understand the sacrifices
you are making. And for storage, I would just go for the cheapest
SSD with 300 GB or more. The introduction of a lot of Chinese brands
into the market has made low-end SSDs incredibly cheaper during the course of the last couple
of years. These cheap SSDs have low-quality memory controllers
that make them much slower... for SSD standards. Even the shittiest SSD is going to be faster
than a mechanical hard drive and to get windows usable that is all you need. So far the build is up to something between
200 and 250 Euros. Let's give it some life and pick a CPU and
GPU. And that is when we get to the Athlon 3000G
APU. A very inexpensive dual-core, 4 threads and
Vega 3 Graphics APUs. Now the criticism that most usually throw
at this part is its low fps-per-dollar/Euro. People in tech space love the idea of optimizing "bang for buck" in the sense of finding just
the right component that gets the most performance per dollar possible. Problem is that when you do the calculation
that usually ends up being something like the Ryzen 5 3600g which Linus used as a comparison,
which is part price about 4 times more than the Athlon and remember... relative income in some of
the example countries is way lower so that difference feels waaaay stepper. Bang for buck means nothing when it ends up
pointing you to a component that you just will never be able to afford. I can say that by experience But hey, hey, Alex, hey. What about the Ryzen 5 1600 AF. AMD released a new version of an old six core
CPU for just $85 dollars! Except that I have only seen it in Spain for
a 100 Euros and just plainly not available on the websites I was using for the other
countries. Funny story about these bargain parts, somehow
they tend to be much harder to find outside the US but Athlons? Athlons are everywhere. Except for Venezuela because... you know... Venezuela! Not to mention a key issue with the 1600 AG and 3600. They do not have an integrated GPU and would
necessitate buying a GPU on the first purchase. One of the great things about APUs is that
their integrated graphics are competent enough to essentially function as a stop-gap solution
to divide your purchase into two parts. You can just buy the APU and use it to power
your entire PC until you can also afford a GPU and then upgrading is just adding something
to the PCIe slot. Easy. Hey, hey, hey Alex. Why not then buy a 2200G? That's much better and should be cheap. If you can find a 2200G close to an Athlon
price, get it. That's a great freaking deal. In practice being an older part I often saw
it was just not available or as developing countries tend to add a premium for anything
labelled as gaming, putting it close to the 3200G in price... so in other
words almost double the price of an Athlon. And remember... "just 50" euros feels like
a great deal more when your average income is... ok, you get the point. I have hammered on that long enough. With an Athlon 3000G on board and just the
anaemic mini included cooler I was easily able to overclock the CPU to 3.9 GHz and the
GPU to 1.7 GHz. You might notice this is a bit lower on the
CPU than I did on the dedicated video and you can blame the cheap power supply on that. But still, this stop-gap solution does just
fine for a variety of gaming scenarios. For example, competitive games like Overwatch
on low settings and a 50% resolution scaler play at 60 FPS with minimal issues. You can expect similar results for a variety
of light e-sports titles. Even well-optimized games like Devil May Cry
5 on similar settings work at 60 FPS with little issue. I have raved about the performance of the
Athlon lots before so I am not going to linger. Games like Apex Legends start hitting some
issues but mostly still keep it over 30 FPS. I have seen better results on Apex Legends
with this part on the part but on much, much faster RAM so vram bandwidth is 100% a problem
here but it can still be done with some patience. However, as I mentioned before APUs are great
stopgap solutions. Let's say that since you manage to purchase
and use this first, months pass and you can get enough to add a GPU to it. What happens now? While my idea was to add something very inexpensive. The now almost 3-year-old AMD Polaris architecture
is still surprisingly in production and very often recommended in budget circles due to
its great performance. In fact, they are often so cheap I suspect
they are the reason why AMD has not made a sub $150 GPU on their current generation. Interestingly enough their problem in developing
countries is availability. In Chile, Argentina and Mexico if you sort
new GPUs by price on the stores I was checking you mostly would end with super low-end GPU
like the GT 710 which I do not recommend as an upgrade for this build since it is not
much different from the integrated GPU. For something like this I would suggest something
like the RX 560, however the cheapest AMD GPU from that generation
that I consitenly saw as easily available in all countries was the faster and more expensive
RX 570. While this is Overkill for what I had in mind
and it is going to be by far the most expensive part of the build it is going to illustrate
very clearly just how well the Athlon can do as just a cheap CPU one you upgrade. For example, the 3 games that I have shown
so far. Since Overwatch and Devil May Cry were both
working at nearly 60 FPS on integrated it is not a surprise that with a great dedicated
GPU both games are locked to 60 FPS on higher settings with no problem. Apex Legends, the game that causes the APU
the most trouble during combat, is now squarely a 60 FPS deal on the higher setting with literally
no issue. How is that for an upgrade. Now the concern a lot of people have with
going for a dual-core is that it is going to become a problem with any newer heavy game,
and why it is true that reaching 60 FPS is going to be difficult in some titles if you only have a dual core the heaviest games in terms
of CPU usage that I know which are Red Dead Redemption 2 and Assassin's Creed Odyssey
could perfectly maintain a 30 FPS lock through a session which, worth noting, is the framerate
you get on consoles, even on the fancy pro ones. And thanks to the dedicated GPU you can either
used a low balanced preset on red dead redemption or a high preset on Assassin's Creed. Look, there are better "bang for buck" parts
that can do 60 FPS but the reality is that when you are in a country where those components
are simply not a possibility entry-level parts like the Athlon provide an easy path for PC
Gaming when the used market is just out of question. Which is often is less developed countries. The decent integrated GPU allows to segment
the purchase in two parts and its reputation as a general use brand makes it surprisingly easy to find at decent prices  in countries where other budget options are either priced up or just not existent. As a CPU it can do 60 FPS on a variety of
games and at least consoles framerates on the heaviest stuff out there, and as a stopgap
GPU it can pretty well on a lot of the lighter and medium titles and for the heaviest ones...
well, I got other videos for that. you for watching. 