[♪ INTRO] In 1959, the US Army started building a town
in Greenland. It was named Camp Century. And while science wasn’t its primary goal, Camp Century was the source of the first long
ice core ever acquired -- an ice core that opened the door to the history
of Earth’s climate. Oh, also: Camp Century wasn’t built on the
ice sheet -- but inside it. Camp Century wasn’t the only US base in
Greenland, but it was the only one completely underground. And this was no cramped, one-room burrow,
either. Camp Century had a barbershop and a theater and everything you’d expect from a small
city. All inside the ice -- generally around eight meters beneath the
surface. All that ice meant that even after the tunnels
were completed in 1960, Camp Century was plagued by construction issues. Between the weight of the ice pressing down
on every ceiling, the heat generated by both buildings and humans, and the movement of the ice itself, the whole
base required constant upkeep. By the time it was just a few years old, about
fifty people spent their days cutting through ice with
chainsaws to maintain the tunnels and avoid collapse
— in a base that only ever had about 200 occupants
at most. And then there was the nuclear reactor. Camp Century was powered by the world’s
first portable nuclear reactor. It was designed off-site and built almost
IKEA-style in Greenland so that the people in the camp didn’t have
to spend too much time tinkering. The reactor produced plenty of electricity, but it also made a lot of heat -- compounding
the problem of melting walls. Plus, it made radioactive waste, which was
left in the ice when the camp was abandoned. But we’ll come back to that. To the outside world, Camp Century was for
research. The Army wanted to study how to live and build
in such an extreme, remote environment -- because this was the
Cold War, and everyone thought that the Army might end
up somewhere with famously murderous winters. But a team of scientists got to tag along,
too. It was, after all, the perfect chance to study
Greenland’s ice sheet. Ice sheets are made of years of snow piled
on top of each other, with deeper ice being made of older snow. Air gets trapped between the snowflakes -- air
that scientists can use to find out what the atmosphere was like when
the snow first fell. They can see how much carbon dioxide there
was at the time, for instance, or even if a volcano erupted
and threw a bunch of ash into the air. But global temperatures also affect the amounts
of certain isotopes (or atomic variants) of hydrogen and oxygen. So scientists can use those elements to understand
global temperatures when that snow fell and became part of the
ice sheet. We’ve used ice this way since the 1930s, but Camp Century provided the first opportunity to dig more than a kilometer down into an
ice sheet. And that ice core is its most lasting scientific
legacy. It showed Earth’s climate evolving over
the last hundred thousand years, with ice ages and warm periods right where
scientists expected them based on other kinds of evidence. Because it’s one long, continuous sample
of the past, the Camp Century ice core showed that these
other, more piecemeal sources of data were accurate pictures of
Earth’s climate. The data weren’t quite detailed enough to
show the effects of climate change, which also wasn’t as pronounced then as
it is now. But Camp Century’s ice helped provide a
baseline for future research. We now know from it and other ice cores that
what’s happening now is not part of any natural cycle; it’s our
fault. The core keeps giving, too. In 2019, one researcher used mud trapped in
the ice to figure out that Greenland’s ice sheet
is probably around one million years old. But science wasn’t Camp Century’s main
goal -- because, again: Cold War. Camp Century was really built to test out
a plan to dig hundreds of tunnels throughout Greenland and fill each one with
a nuclear missile. Luckily for the world in general, the ice
didn’t cooperate. They’d dig and reinforce a tunnel to fit
a missile, but then the ice would shift or melt and change
the shape of the tunnel. And you don’t want that happening with missiles
in there. Once the Army realized that, Camp Century
was on borrowed time. With its tunnels falling apart around them,
the tiny city was abandoned by 1967. They’d removed the nuclear reactor a few
years earlier, but they left behind buildings and diesel
fuel and nuclear waste -- to be encased in ice forever. But the very climate change that Camp Century
helped reveal has also put a much shorter timeline on that
“forever” bit. Greenland’s ice is on the move; radar has
shown that Camp Century is a couple hundred meters west of where it
used to be. And while it’s currently under even thicker
ice than it was back in the day, that’s changing, too. In 2016, a team calculated that as Greenland’s
ice melts, Camp Century’s waste will be exposed to
the elements by around the year 2090 —maybe sooner, if climate
change keeps getting worse. That’s not just nuclear waste, but other
hazardous materials as well. The ice is too thick for us to retrieve anything
right now. But we’ll need to do it eventually. It’s up to us to learn from this city buried
under the ice. Because as Camp Century helped teach us, that
ice might not last forever. Thanks for watching this episode of SciShow. 