Sometimes you hear something in a
video game so unexpected... [crazy gibberish audio from Tony Hawk Underground] It seems to stick with you for days... [gibberish] [gibberish] This is why they were diving into the top
7 strangest audio discoveries in video games that still remain unsolved
to this day part two brought to you by Dashlane. [gibberish] Red Dead Redemption 2. In a particularly
unusual audio discovery, players such as belgiumsheepdog were playing through
Red Dead Redemption 2 when suddenly they realized there was something off with
the protagonists voice... "Good Mornin'" In fact perhaps only because of a
completely inexplicable glitch it wasn't even his voice at all! "Mornin' partner!" 
"A very good morning to you!" But actually the adult voice of Jack Marston, a
character who appeared as an adult at the end of the original Red Dead
Redemption but never as an adult in Red Dead Redemption 2. "You have a fine
morning Ma'am!" "Good morning to ya sir!" Creating an extremely unusual glitch where the main character
was using the voice of someone who didn't even appear in the game! "Good day, miss!"
Making matters even more confusing, a random non-player character
was later found affected with the same glitch.. "You had my nerves humming." How the mysterious recordings are
being triggered into the game or what the purpose of the recordings were even
doing in Red Dead Redemption 2 in the first place, remains a mystery... "Morning Partner!"
Leaving many to believe that Jack's future in the series may be far from
over. "You have a fine morning ma'am!" Ma'am?
That's clearly.. not a woman! "Another day!" [woman's voice] Oh my god I have no idea what to trust
anymore! Asterix XXL. Thanks to pyramidensurfer for submitting me this
odd discovery on my discord server. Asterix is one of the world's most
famous comic book characters with theme parks, movies, and board games.. unless you
live in America where the character is practically unknown. Despite this, several
titles of Asterix have made it to the US including Asterix
XXL, rebranded as Kick Buttix in the States. A mystery haunting Kick
Buttix since released in 2003 are a couple of unsettling and unexplained
audio discoveries that could be found on the game's last mission, as players
thought they could hear the faint cries of a baby beyond this random
inaccessible gate in the level. Pyramidensurfer couldn't let the
question the other side taunt him any further, and in the 2018, 15 years after the
game's release, he created a camera hack so he could see
exactly what was on the other side.. and while he wasn't able to find anything
physically back there, he definitely confirmed there to be a baby crying
clear as day behind the gate... [baby wailing] Why? And as terrifying as that is an even more
frightening audio was found only a few steps away as youtuber the crass dude
found an extremely unsettling whisper if they stood in front of these boxes,
which are so quiet I actually had to amplify the audio quite significantly... [whispers] What the [bleep]? Well
that definitely didn't sound like English to me. Considering the developers
of Kick Buttix originate from France really hoping one of my French-speaking
viewers can provide a translation. Merci in advance! [whisper] Bloodborne. Thanks to Grace Daniel for submitting me this in the comments of the last audio
discoveries video, players found at random times in the game if they visited
the old abandoned workshop, turned up the ambient track in the game options
and stood in this totally random spot in the garden, they could hear a rather
creepy loop of a woman laughing and saying yes over and over... "[giggling] ...yes... [giggling] ... yes..." That's spooky!
Some theorists suggest that this was an easter egg implying relations between
the nearby characters Gehrman and his doll although others felt this theory was
inconsistent and a little far-fetched mostly given the game portrayed their
relationship as largely innocent. Not only that, it was later discovered the
audio doesn't originate from the doll at all and instead originates from a
completely random piece of dialogue found in a totally different scene of
the game... "Yes... [giggling] ... yes!" With this knowledge many players believe something much more
cryptic is going on here, that possibly wasn't even intended.. further backed by the
fact that From Software games tend to have a reputation for strange audio
glitches.. "From Software" ...evidenced by the many submissions I've received for
their original title Dark Souls... [large and distant screeching] ...before eventually deteriorating into a
nasty distortion... [distortion] 
Ugh... horrible!! But while that discovery is almost definitely the result of a
glitch, the Bloodborne audio's original purpose remains a highly contentious
debate, with no firm confirmation what the audio is supposed to be in years.. why
would such a strange snippet of audio be repeating over and over in such a random spot of the game? Intentional or not this one legit gives me the creeps. "[giggling] ... yes!" Call of Duty Modern Warfare 3. Thanks to Gulargambone for submitting this
intriguing mystery on my discord server, as data miners made an unusual
discovery in the files for the game's final mission: Dust to Dust.
In the data for the game three mysterious audio files were found tied to the game's
ending that couldn't be found anywhere else in the game... that were titled Dubai
Finale Now, Dubai Shadow Man exit, and Dubai Finale Ominous Stranger. Now normally,
the game ends pretty standardly with you taking out the game's main villain
finalizing with you lighting a cigar as you stare at
his body... very standard stuff... but playing these newly found audio files together
at once paints a far more mysterious picture... Dataminers also found leftover strings
of text in the mission scripts that said Mysterious Stranger Rimlight, Dubai Finale Stranger appears, and Finale Shadow Man exit. While no dialogue has been found
that originally belonged to this missing ending, hackers discovered that the audio
which do appear in the game were nowhere to be
found in the files for the map, nor anywhere! So it is possible the dialogue
for the ending still exists somewhere, albeit hidden from plain sight along
with the rest of Makarov's audio. All this seems a bit surreal, perhaps too enigmatic for a Call of Duty title... Unfortunately, being evidence is slim
over what exactly this alternate ending actually is... who the hell the Shadow Man
or mysterious stranger is supposed to be may just be a mystery where we'll never
know the answer... Watchdogs 2. Previously on my video
Unsolved Mysteries Part 3, I discussed how in Ubisoft title Far Cry 5, players
could find chilling audio bleeding through their car radio if they drove to
certain locations in the game... that almost sounded as though a woman on
the other side was crying for help... Well, strangely enough, it appears as
though the same sort of thing has been found in another Ubisoft game, Watchdogs 2, as the game at one point provides the ability to hack random strangers texts and
calls... most of which are fairly unexciting... not the case for players Jacob
and Nicholas Miller who both submitted their discoveries to me separately
through oddheader.com. Both managed to record extremely rare instances of
unusual audio interferences that no one's ever replicated since... [garbled audio] Collectively Jacob and Nicholas Miller
have both played Watchdogs a total of 1600 hours, well above any game's normal
playtime. In the audio they reported hearing what I noticed was very similar
to the previous reports from Far Cry 5 as they could hear a woman weeping and cries for help once again. [distorted audio] However, none of it compares to the audio interference
Jacob found when he went to hack this random car enthusiast's phone, he heard
something that he's never found again... [strange loud groan] Woah! What the [bleep]? [groaning] Scared the [bleep] outta me! Mortal Kombat 3. Thanks to David Stein who was inspired by the last audio mystery video to
submit this discovery he made on Mortal Kombat 3 on cd-rom... Quick bit of
background: to save on the limited processing power of home computers in
the 90s, game audio on CD-ROMs wasn't actually programmed in the games
themselves, but was actually played directly from the disc into the
computer speakers separately while you played the game... this meant you couldn't
actually datamine Mortal Kombat 3's audio from the data of the game, but
instead could only access them by inserting the disk into a CD player like
you would a normal audio CD. Most of the game's standard audio could be found
ranging from tracks 1 to 46 [game sound effect] But on track 47 something unexpected
plays that can't be found anywhere in the game... [funky music plays] Okay, first off, we got a pretty funky
groove going, when suddenly a rather unexpected, fairly jarring backwards
voice begins to emerge out of the absurdity... [backwards audio and funky groove] Reversing the audio things get
even weirder, as when we play it back it's a rather goofy sounding voice
reciting the Lewis Carroll poem 'Tis The Voice of The Lobster.. Huh!? No clue what's going on here...
What the purpose of this audio is or what the developers were smoking when
they came up with this one... is still a mystery. The Stanley Parable. A rather
unusual mystery exists on the first-person narrative game The Stanley
Parable before you even start the game, brought to my attention by Ashley Simple
and Little Ring on my discord server.. in the distortion of office sounds in the
background of the main menu, muffled dialogue can be heard that when enhanced
for some reason sounds like a manager chastising employee over what he
considers to be a false claim to HR... And at this point it sounds like the
manager has a complete change in attitude and completely lets the
employee go... Honestly the question is why the hell
something like this is even here? Perhaps someone out there can transcribe this
better than I can, but honestly I don't think it's gonna give us a better idea
why the hell anyone would include something like this in the first place...
and just as a few these developers very likely never wanted these discoveries to
ever be found... "[giggles] Yes.." You may be just as concerned of your own sensitive
materials being discovered and leaked out into the world... don't forget that
Funimation is still in hot water over some incredibly awkward audio files that were
leaked from the new Dragonball Z game... "Yes it is true! Tommy don't not lie. He likes big butts. He cannot lie." ...Which may be why you want to save
yourself from the same embarrassment with the extra level of security that
dashlane provides. Dashlane can be your one-stop shop for your digital identity
by managing all your passwords so that you don't have to keep track of each one. Dashlane works across all devices 