(A giant mosquito) What? x5 A giant mosquito, a giant mosquito Let's hurry and eat (Eating first lol) Hi Bbosong,
how have you been? I got many comments that wanted me to film a vlog for when I don't do any work so I'll be filming a vlog today Actually, I really don't do anything special But that even a day without special events (Abrupt words of wisdom time lol) Each and every day is special So let me do a vlog for you guys today I'll have Body Nine Dabujin Lunch Box
before I exercise (Bomi's daily task #1 Breakfast) I'll eat this (Finished microwaving the lunch) Wow! Wow! (Packed lunches are nice these days..) This is my meal before my workout It's good (Adding seaweed) I'll eat it with seaweed (Muk-Bomi knows how to eat..) It's good Since it's so hot outside, I crave so much food I'm really not doing
anything special, am I? I just eat and go on with my life I'm very into camping these days Staying home all day made
me so bored and depressed So I've been thinking of ways to travel while staying healthy and safe and came across a video on YouTube about people going on camping,
which looked so nice So I've been going on camping these days I didn't do anything
to deserve eating this much (Very normal mukbang by an idol... haha) I'm done I have to go exercise now So let me get changed to my gym clothes Okay guys I get changed to my gym clothes I'm not sure how I'm going
to exercise in this hot weather But I'll try my best I gained so much weight (Hey, you too?) After this.. I have to go to an acting class I normally workout by myself But since I have an appointment today, I'm waiting for my manager to come Okay guys, I'll get going now, bye (Bomi's daily task #2 Exercise) Okay guys, let's go and exercise! Guys, I bought this few days ago It's super nice Le Jour Dress Perfume French Lavender You can just spray it on before you workout The reason I like it is I used to have eczema This product is recommended
by the Eczema Association Whenever I go out for work,
I put this in the car like this Since it's a fabric deodorizer, it doesn't have a strong scent,
it's very subtle So for working out,
it's better than a perfume You may get sweaty, but
this gets rid of any smell Also, the scent is very soothing It's Lavender scent Also, the car that Apink uses isn't as clean as you think Right, sir? (Suddenly asking her manager lol) We eat a lot in the car So when we do it,
we spray this in here I'll now go and exercise very hard, let's go (Must stretch before exercising) (Muscular strength+10) (Time to endure for Muk-Bomi...) One more push up Okay, done (Bbom Bbom bbom)
(This video contains indirect advertisement) I got changed and I'm done
with exercising It's super hot today (Worked very hard...) I'm done exercising On these clothes, I'll always spray Le Jour Dress Perfume on like this after I exercise since washing it everyday
after a workout will wear it out a bit So I'll just roughly spray it like this once I really like this, you like how it smells, right? Doesn't it really smell
like a fabric deodorizer? So after I finish working out, I put my clothes on the front seat like this and just bring it back home I have to go and take an acting class Let's get going I'm so hungry though I'll eat after the class
at the Han River I'll wait until then (A FEW MOMENTS LATER) (Muk-Bomi is back lol) I really wanted to wait until later But I don't think I could concentrate
during class so I had to eat this (She thinks it's funny herself lol) Last bite Now that I'm energized,
I'll go take the class now (Bomi's daily task #3 Acting class) Okay, guys, I'm done with my acting class I came outside and it's dark already This is Cherry and we'll be eating dinner together I want sweet and sour chicken I want chicken feet as well (Sweet and sour chicken, chicken feet)
I got this and this Let's go to the Han River
and eat these Bbyong! (Bomi's Daily Task #4 Eat in the car with Cherry) I'm super into staying in the car these days Take a look You can just lie down like this Let's start eating now We will set everything up
and turn the camera back on We will eat sweet and sour chicken
and chicken feet we bought Before we do that,
I brought these three things This is the perfume I showed
you in the morning This is just a hand sanitizer This one, I highly recommend this one, guys Let me talk about this, guys It's a toilet cover(cleanser) If you feel like you
want to clean the toilet seat, you can spray this on the toilet
before you use it It will make you feel safer about using it This is not just for the toilet You can use it to clean the table as well This is called Le Jour toilet cover cleanser That's what it says but you can also use it to clean the table Let me clean this up (Sanitary+20) Okay then, let's hurry Before I attract mosquitoes,
I'll quickly set up the food Go, go Wow, that looks good I want to eat this so bad right now.. Don't make this harder for me (I always give them a hard time...haha) Done Cherry, let's eat (Bbom Bbom Bbom)
(This video contains indirect advertisement) Okay, chicken feet (Chicken feet is full of collagen,
so it's not fattening..) I like this place Right? It's so unexpected It's so pretty It is This is what we do.. This is really how I live my life I really do this a lot The mosquitoes are so annoying You got a mosquito bite here.. Right.. I've gone camping.. how many times lately? Five times? Once a week Oh really? I played so much I've gone camping once a week It's called outdoor camping It's not for going to a camping location,
you can go any place outdoors You can go anywhere where there is no one Seriously.. (A thumbs up) Next time, I go I'll film a video and show it to you guys I thought there would be so many mosquitoes But there aren't that many here It could be because we've seen
a swarm of them before Is that right..? We saw all kinds of insects (A giant mosquito) What x5 A giant mosquito, a giant mosquito Let's hurry and eat (Eating first lol) It's till so nice I got a lot of mosquito bites,
so let me use this mosquito net (She knows what to do...) Okay, Bomi, you got this Okay (That is Bomi we know lol) It worked, it worked, awesome It worked Let me in, let me in.. (A bug is stuck on it lol) Mosquitoes got stuck here already (Now, this is for Bbosong...) ((Made with editor's preferences) relaxing shot.mp4) (For Bbosongs who must feel
very frustrated these days) (Bomi came here on your behalf) (Bomi is drawing Cherry) (Swoosh.. swoosh...) Wait.. Why is she so mad? That's how you normally look (Is this what's called real friendship.?) Cherry and I will now take time to relax
and draw the Han River I know Scallion lol correct I know, Bugles (lol) June 22 Someday... (lol) At the Han River... I should put my name on it Bomi... Done (Drawing that reminds you
of childhood is done) Okay, guys, so this is what I drew This is it for today I really didn't do much today I was worried that you would think my day is boring I'm not sure if you liked it but I've been taking lessons, working out... Also, outdoor camping I've been loving going
on camping these days I'll get some rest, go back home, and get some sleep I did a good job, right? (Bomi feels proud) If you leave a nice comment
about this picture, I'll chose a comment that I like and gift it to the person who wrote it Okay then, bye~ 