- One of the complaints we've
heard about social media is that photos and
videos from your friends are mixed in with content from publishers, and creators and influencers, but your friends aren't content, they're relationships. That's why today we're separating
the social from the media. - Snaps market cap, disappearing faster than
Snapchat stories themselves. - Does anyone else not
open Snapchat anymore? - Kylie Jenner has
ruined Snapchat for good. - That tweet wiped out more
than $1,000,000,000 in value? - Is that stock drop entirely
because of Kylie Jenner? (pop sound) - What happened to Snapchat? I used to use it, but here's the thing, now I don't. There are definitely people
who still use the app, but I don't know who they are. I mean, Kylie Jenner doesn't use the app anymore, so what's the point? For those who have never
used Snapchat before, that's okay because every
other social media app has stolen it's best features. Photo's that disappear, wacky face filters, stories. All things that Snapchat
basically invented, that every other app has ripped off, and by every other app, I mean Instagram. As I understand it Mark
surveillance-berg was like, "Hey, Snapchat let me buy you," and then Snapchat was like, "No!" And then he was like, "Well, if that's the case
then I'm going to steal all of your best features, and while I'm at it, I'm going to let foreign
governments interfere in my country's election." And then Snapchat just
stood by and let it happen, so what I'm saying is it's their fault. More like Mark my words-berg. (laughs) It's kind of sad the state of Snapchat now because I feel like it's
been robbed of it's identity, like what is Snapchat? It's not like they don't put the work in. Snapchat employs some of
the worlds leading experts in computer vision and machine learning, just so that they could figure out how to put dog ears on my head, and then what do we do? We open up Snapchat, take a photo and then share it on Twitter and Instagram @Jarvis which, just me? How is Snapchat supposed
to survive and compete with the likes of Instagram and TikTok? The answer? Is Snapchat Discover. Discover is Snapchat's only feature that hasn't been ripped off yet, well that and Bitmoji, but Bitmoji aren't going to
drive quarterly revenue goals. Snapchat Discover is a magical place where you don't discover anything, instead your senses are attacked by the worst click-bait known to man. Somehow, some way all of the
Internet's worst click-bait got together and congregated
into this one location. We punched someone in the chest, and this is what happened. What the hell is this? Who is this even for? It's definitely not any
specific demographic because these stories
are all over the place. You've got over 100 US citizens
evaluated for Coronavirus, next to kissing tips to drive bae wild. Ah yes, when you're
concerned about a worldwide virus outbreak but, you've still got to drive bae wild. I can't help but think these
two things are related. "Hey, I want to smooch but, you been checked out for Coronavirus?" It turns out that the number
one tip to drive bae wild is a clean bill of health. "Ah, excuse me, how do we get that job?" How do we get that job? Because it's been my dream
since I was a little boy to have traffic cone arms. The unfortunate truth is that his dad is actually a crossing-guard
and his mom is a stoplight, so he was born into it. Ah, nepotism! You know it's funny because
it seems like Snapchat is investing more and more
to these Discover shows because they've been
really successful for them, and they'll take what they can get after Kylie Jenner erased $1,000,000,000
of revenue with a tweet. So, I understand that Snapchat needed to make back that money, but at what cost? Because when Snapchat started Discovery, it was meant to garner respect, like working with these
major media companies, I found the video from when they first introduced Discover and it's
very funny to look at now, because when it started it
was like National Geographic, ESPN, CNN, you know
like major media brands? And now, It's just everyone. (laughing) Like 5-Minute Crafts has a show and you know how I feel about them, I like them very much. So, satisfying, you know those videos, where they destroy things for fun. (water sounds) Ew, this isn't satisfying at all. AirPods everywhere. - Oh wait you're talking to me, hold up! AirPods on the music, what's up? (laughing) It me. (laughing) Slick fades, seems like a whole channel
of people getting haircuts? (calm music playing) You know what? These fades are pretty slick. So, while some of these
shows are original content and by original content
I mean repurposed content from elsewhere on the internet, others are just collections of random people's Snapchat stories related to like a weirdly specific topic. Bruh, these optical
illusions got us tripping. The person who wrote this (beep) caption is definitely a cop, right? (laughing) Reaction time, isn't that like a YouTube channel? Oh, it definitely is. Am I supposed to believe
that this guy said, "Bruh, these optical
illusions got us tripping?" - What is the definition of PEMDAS? Please excuse my dope ass swag. (buzzer sound) No, that's not, that's not the definition. - All right, maybe this
is pretty easy to believe. Man, these optical illusions
got the whole squad tripping, no cap. So, for being the most
unique part of Snapchat, there's nothing unique about this content, it's just recycled from
other parts of the internet and then reformatted badly, which brings me to the Dobre brothers who are also, have a Snapchat show obviously. The Dobre brothers if you're not familiar, they have a great bio right here, "We are the Dobre brothers
and we do backflips! We dance, we do backflips and we also live life like there's no tomorrow." It's a little intense, right? Also untrue, maybe it's just me but
if I was living life like there's no tomorrow, there would be a lot of crying, also a lot of you know, connecting with friends and family, getting my will in order, definitely wouldn't be
pranking my girlfriend, that doesn't seem like the
right time for pranks at all. - What does that look like? (slamming sound) - Is that my MacBook? - Honestly. - You know I'm like mid-finals,
right? (beeping sound) - I mean, that's not how I would react if I was, if I was mid-finals and
someone froze my computer in a block of ice but, we all grieve in different ways. - We were just chilling at the crib today, at the crib, at the crib. We didn't have any plans to do tonight. - The (beep) are these guys doing? At the crib, at the crib, just chilling at the crib, at the crib at the crib. - Ain't no filming, no nothing. - No, no no. - Until my girlfriend. - You can tell that this
is not shot for Snapchat because they don't even
try to reframe the video, they just zoom into like nothing. So, this guy's girlfriend
sucks because she, lost her laptop in his giant mansion. - Okay. - He's got to teach her a lesson. - This is Maddy's MacBook, Maddy is coming over tomorrow, she's at school right now, she's going to her night class. - She's at school without her laptop? - And when she comes over, she's going to come home
to a frozen MacBook. - Oh, yo he's actually doing this? - I hate how in all these pranks, somebody is like, somebody who is clearly
an accomplice is like, "Wait, are we doing this?" It happened morgues video obviously if you watched the video last week, and in here it is again, "Are we doing this?" I don't know, is the video called (beep)
freezing my girlfriends MacBook? I guess we are. - But he's actually doing this? - Yeah, why not? - Why not? I can't think of a reason, laptops are famously water-resistant. - Yo, actually? - Yo, this is it bro. - Yo, don't fill it up too much. - Why is everyone surprised? - Yo actually though man, are you actually doing this? - This is definitely the best prank. - Yeah bro. - It's okay, I think she
really likes me a lot. - It's okay because she likes you a lot? That doesn't give you free-reign to just do whatever the (beep) you
want with her possessions. So, Maddy finally comes
back from her night class. - You know I'm like mid-finals, right? - Guess what? I surprised you with a new Mac, aye! - This is the most poorly
executed prank I've ever seen. If you have to tell someone
that you're surprising them, it's not a surprise. Also you can't just like destroy somebody's laptop and be like, "It's okay because I got you a new one.' "Like, hey babe I burned down your house, but don't worry I bought you a new house." "Like well did you take all of my like childhood irreplaceable, childhood possessions out of the house before you burned it down?" Did you save her files? Dobre brother I don't know
what any of your names are. - Wait, stop are you serious? I'm going to cry, are you serious? - Yeah I did. - (laughing) Wait, are you serious? - Yeah because when I found it I noticed that your keyboard was a little messed up. - Yeah, my keyboard doesn't work. - Okay, so her keyboard was broken, so it does make sense that
he just destroyed her laptop, it's cool. I saw that your caps
lock button was sticking and I know how you like
to type in all caps babe, so I like, I bought you a new MacBook, no I knew you have Apple Care
on like the other MacBook and you could have just
gotten that keyboard replaced for free but like, what if we just like voided that warranty and I got you a new thing? (laughing) I guess all that matters is that, this is definitely real and she's okay. - I'm okay now. - How you may ask, does Snapchat make
money with this content? Well, with ads of course, why else would they be appealing to the widest audience imaginable? The ads on Snapchat are, how do I say this? Frequent and just like
haphazardly strewn about, because it's not like they can
wait for the natural pauses in the already short Snapchat content because those don't exist. So, instead they just put ads wherever the (beep) they want. If you don't mind I'm
going to take a quick break and watch myself some slick fades. (calm music playing) - I wonder what he's going
to do with that outline. (calm music playing) (upbeat music playing) - Oh, W-2S. Stop trying to get me to
do my taxes, Snapchat. That's not very slick of you. (calm music playing) - Okay, so we're back and
he's drawing an outline, I presume of the sick
fade he's about to give. (calm music playing) (upbeat music playing) - Another ad, come on Snapchat, So, while watching far too
much Snapchat Discover content, I stumbled upon Phony Texts, which is maybe the lowest effort series I have ever seen. It's just like fake
iMessage conversations, with fake people, because instead of animating characters or filming real-life actors, you can just type back and forth, and that's content. Do you like roses? Already a weird, text to send for someone with whom you have no conversation history. That's like what a
serial killer would say, "Do you like roses?" Like, I would look over my shoulder if I received that text from a stranger, and what do we also see? This person is in his phone
as cute Vanessa from work. I can only assume that
there's a lot of Vanessa's in his phone so he needs
a lot of qualifiers. Also, the title is a pun, right? Like they're phony stories
because they're fake but also, they happen on phones. (deep inhale and exhale) Do you like roses? I'm not answering that. You didn't have to respond to this text, we've addressed that it's
like a serial killer text, so like don't respond to it, right? Why? I'm not interested. (typing sound) Also they play this loud ass typing noise, so that you, can't focus. This is like homework, this is a very slow book. Okay, so a guy is harassing
a woman from work, no problems so far, she's apparently repeatedly
turned him down yet, responds to his every whim in message. Homegirl, he doesn't
deserve a paragraph of text. It's not what you think. Yes, it is. You ask about my favorite flowers, order a bouquet to my office, I adore the big romantic gesture and I finally go out with you, sound about right? He's probably like, "Shit, I was just curious geez." You have it all wrong. No! What is this? I'm a mushy mess, I can't hold it together. Leave tricky avocados to us. Wholly Guacamole. All real, no drama. Are they reading the story with me? What is happening right now? No, I don't want to date you
and I don't want your roses. (typing sound) The roses aren't for you. (gasp) (typing sound) - Hi, are you Sarah? - Sarah. - Oh my God, it's Kris Jenner! - Is Kris Jenner his girlfriend? - Did you just attack my village? - Yeah she did. - No, we didn't. - Whose village should I attack? - Oh, definitely Kris Jenner's. - [Both] (laughing) - Yeah, (beep) up Kris Jenner's Village. - Okay, give me 10% of your
coins and I'll forgive you. - You can't be serious. - Trust me, she is serious. - Are these women being extorted by Kris Jenner and Scott Disick? - Coin Master, more than just a game. - Yeah, it's more than just
a game because it steals your information and
gives it to Kris Jenner. Okay, where were we? Unnamed man, giving girl who hates him
way too much information about his dating life. I haven't asked you out in months. So? Why do you think that is? I don't know. Because I have a girlfriend, and now I don't want to lose her, that's why I texted you. Today is our anniversary. (typing sound) So, I booked us a romantic trip, bought her a diamond. What anniversary? He said he hasn't asked this
other girl out in months. Made Speranzo dinner reservations. Holy (beep), you got Speranzo's? We all know how hard it is to get a reservation at Speranzo's, a real restaurant that definitely exists. - Mom, Scott just attacked my village. - Scott just raided my village. - What are you guys doing here? - [Together] What are you doing here? - Does Kris Jenner own this game? Why are all of the Kardashians
doing ads for Coin Master? - What do you mean what am I doing here? I'm the Coin Master. - So, this just keeps going, until and this is a very
common trope in these stories, he gets another text from his roommate, you know how you put your roommate in your phone as roommate? (laughs) Yo, what's up dog? It then becomes clear that, our unnamed hero didn't have a girlfriend at all, this was all just a ploy
to get a sympathy date with cute Vanessa. No way, that would be dope! You've been single forever! Who's the lucky girl? Vanessa. Lol, how is that possible? Romance requires imagination. No, you're just lying, you just lied, romance requires, fibbing, falsehoods. Not being forthcoming. It says that it's for me, but it does not feel very personalized. I've watched a bunch of stuff on here and these recommendations haven't changed, it's actually harder
to find the shows that I've watched already, it just keeps recommending me like, beauty tutorials and I get it, okay? I need a slick fade. Stop rubbing it in Snapchat, Jesus! It's actually kind of sad
because I thought Snapchat had a lot of promise in the beginning and I don't even know what it is anymore, it has no identity, it just looks like the BuzzFeed home page. You know, when I was in college, Snapchat was like my favorite
app for sharing memories and goofs with friends, that disappeared immediately and, are gone forever. Thanks to Alyce.ls for sending
me a message on Instagram, I don't even know if
she watches my videos, it just says that she doesn't
have the attention span to. I have no idea if I'm saying that right, if you want me to butcher your name, send me a message on Instagram, and you don't even have
to watch my videos. 