OK, I'm going to moon you. Are you ready? Close your eyes
if you don't want to see a big bright mooning. Boom! That's a moon. That's Ganymede. This is also a moon. This is Phobos. Cool, right? Our moon is just
called, "the moon," which is a bit
presumptuous, actually. But you could also call
it Luna if you want. That's Latin for moon,
which some cultures use. Just don't call it a planet. This is the current
International Astronomical Union's definition of a planet. So let's have a little
thought experiment. Let's say the moon were
to fly off on its own. Like, zoom out of
the solar system. Here on earth, of
course, everybody dies. But what happens to
that little moon? What does it become? Because it's still not a planet,
but it's not a moon either. [VOCALIZING] A new paper from
earlier this year has a name for this
new non-planet moon. And needless to say,
I have questions. Are you ready? Because this is a great name. It's not a planet,
it's not a moon, it's not an asteroid, or a
meteor, or a celestial rogue. The name for this
thing is ploonet. [MUSIC PLAYING] [LAUGHS] Oh, my God. Hi, Moonies. Pronx here-- uh, Trace here. Thanks for watching
Uno Dos of Trace. I really love that you are
here to learn along with me. Welcome new subscribers. 25,000 subscribers. My heart is soaring. Thank you so much. Phew, OK. Recently, I read a paper in the
Monthly Notices of The Royal Astronomical Society
from August of 2019, and I was like, I have to
tell everybody about this. This is crazy. Ploonets? Ploonets? This is embarrassing
for everyone involved. And it's hilarious,
and I love it. It's not actually
embarrassing, it's great. How did we end up here, though? I'll get there. But first, I have to talk
about how solar systems form. I know, astronomy is a lot. In the beginning, there was
darkness and a lot of matter. Slowly, over way
more than a week, a bunch of the atoms of hydrogen
started to coalesce, like water in a small bowl. As more and more gas
and dust fell together joined by its shared gravity,
it ignited, becoming a star! [MUSIC PLAYING] The gravity of this gas
turned this mess of matter into a protoplanetary
disk, a fetal solar system. Then more matters
started to coalesce into planets and asteroids,
and everything else in a solar planetary system! [RIPPING SOUND] Oh, sorry. As new planets form in
a protoplanetary disk, some are going to
float toward or away from their original
orbit in the cloud, due to their
gravitational forces. This is called
planetary migration. Think about it like this. This is the nice model
of planetary migration, and it says that Neptune and
Uranus formed much closer to the sun, and that Neptune
was actually closer than Uranus at one point. But eventually, they
both migrated outwards to where they are
in orbit today. We've seen evidence
of planetary migration in other solar systems,
like, Kepler-223, where the planets are
in resonance, i.e., for every orbit of one
planet, a neighbor planet will orbit twice. Astronomers spotted this
idea at Jupiter long ago, and realized three of Jupe's
moons are in resonance as well. Seeing it elsewhere
makes them think that's our solar system used
to have resonant orbits, too. But for some reason,
the larger gas giants were knocked out of
resonance to the orbits that they have today. The point here is that
orbits can change. So we've got planets. They're forming in this cloud
of protoplanetary debris. And we've got orbits that
can change over time, remaking solar systems
all over the universe. Now we add in observations
of exoplanets. We've been looking at
the stars and finding so many alien planets
that we haven't even been able to study them all yet. We've spotted over 4,000 planets
around other stars so far, and confirmed a lot of them. What we haven't
spotted yet are moons. Exomoons, at least, not yet. And I'm pretty sure you
see where this is going. Moons also formed from
protoplanetary disks, but they didn't gather
enough material quick enough to be a planet. And instead, they were
pulled or captured by the gravity of nearby
bodies and relegated to be celestial
sidekicks for now. Keep that in mind. Over billions of years, planets
don't tend to float outwards, away from their stars. They don't disappear into the
space around solar systems. Instead, they tend to
orbit inwards, falling towards their stars, which
is how some think we ended up with hot Jupiters,
a class of gas giant exoplanets that orbit
very close to their star, like in less than 10
days, that's very close, and they're very hot. When a planet gets
that close, this paper theorizes it needs
to shed its exomoons. But where do those moons go? What happens to them? Do they leave the family
and get their own franchise, like Hydra and Sponde? [MUSIC PLAYING] Let's furiously fast
forward to 2006. Moons are round. Generally, they've
cleared their orbit. But they don't orbit the
sun, they orbit a planet. So under the IAU definition,
they are not planets. But what if a moon isn't
orbiting its planet anymore? What happens if
one of those moons gets fed up with cats
jumping over it and playing second fiddle, and they
just want to go solo? We never actually
observed this happening, but we know that it can happen. So we need a name for
this specific scenario. And that name, as weird
as it may be, is ploonet. Ploonets may get
their own franchise, but it all comes back to family. So even though they
haven't been seen, we know that
ploonets could exist. The problem is, ploonets are
not long for this universe. Once a moon has been spun
off from its host planet, it can be torn apart by tidal
forces of other planets, eaten by another gas giant,
or even the star itself. It could even be tossed entirely
out of the solar system, into interstellar space. Become like a rogue moon. That said, there
are some ploonets that are theorized to last
for several million years and gather new dust
and gas still available from the leftovers of
the protoplanetary disk. And if they do that, they might
be able to upgrade themselves to a capital P planet! And now, you see the problem. Astronomers need specificity. This isn't a moon being
destroyed by its planet friend. It's not a rogue moon. It's something different. And it needs to go on to
have a new life as a planet, but scientists needed a new
word to describe these orphaned celestial bodies. You could feel however
you want about the word that they proposed-- ploonet. [CHUCKLES] But these astronomers
are saying we call them ploonets because
they are not a moon anymore, and they might someday
get to be a planet. Although, it's kind of unlikely. And again, we've
never actually seen one of these things
in the universe. What we have seen,
though, is a bunch of strange anomalies in other
solar systems with planet spotting space
telescopes like Kepler. And those anomalies,
they think might be explained by these moons. Well, ploonets-- [CHUCKLES] --that have been
destroyed, or they're messing with the gravitational
interactions of the planets around distant stars we can see. Now, I can understand
what these astronomers are doing with ploonets. Hopefully you can, too. It's a mix of planet and moon. But couldn't we mix a cooler
word, like, moon and asteroid? Wouldn't that be better? It gives us some way cooler
rombinations, like, masterioid! It's like an asteroid,
but it's a former moon, with a heart of vengeance! [ROCK MUSIC PLAYING] Moonsteroid-- Ah, yeah! --it's neither a
moon, nor an asteroid. And it's terrorizing
its planetary system until a planet arrives
to put it in its place! [UPBEAT MUSIC] [CLASSICAL MUSIC] Asteroon, that special time
in going to galactic day, when we all sit and have a lovely
spot of tea and martian cucumber sandwiches. Any of these words-- [CHUCKLES] --are better. So I'm going to go
ahead and tweet a poll and see what people think. But in the end, moons
are weird, right? When you really
think about it, moons are relegated to the second
class celestial body. Planets, they get all the press. But moons can be
very planet-like, and sometimes that makes
them even more interesting. We love to talk about life
on Mars, which is a planet. But it's far more
likely that we're going to find life
on Europa, which is just a little old moon. Titan is actually
larger than Mars, and it has more
atmosphere than Earth. It's also just a moon, so
it's not as interesting. Ganymede is larger than both
the planet Mercury and the dwarf planet Pluto. It's only a bit smaller
than the planet Mars. And yet, it's still
just a moon, so, meh. Moons are amazing. And they deserve our
love and respect, and they deserve to be explored. Exomoons, too. Exomoons haven't even
been spotted yet. They're really small. But once we do, if the moons
in our own solar system are any example,
then we are going to find some amazing things. In the end, whatever
we want to call them, ploonets are showing us that
solar systems are not as unchanging as we would think. When you look at those
wire models, where all the planets are in
stationary orbits, remember, that's not real. Things change,
planets shift, moons get thrown hither and thither,
nothing lasts forever. You know, except our curiosity. OK, so, ploonets. [LAUGHS] Make sure you fill
out that pole. Thank you so much for
watching Uno Dos of Trace, I really appreciate it. Thank you for subscribing,
for sharing the channel. I think in 2020, we're really
going to blow this thing out of the water. Even if the ploonets thing
was not the best name, let me know what you think the
best name is in the comments. I'm a big fan of moonsteroid. Kind of sounds like a cool band. OK, I'll see you in the future. 