Hello, I'm here to do the MBTI test today. (ONCE said SANA would be ENFP)
Fans said I'd be a certain personality, so I'm here to test out the result! I'll take the test right away. 'You have a hard time
introducing yourself to others.' A bit. Introducing myself isn't hard,
it's just sudden questions like... "What's your favorite food?"
"What your least favorite fruit?" Questions like these are hard to answer. There have been instances where I
wasn't able to answer questions like these. One time, I went back to the dorm and wrote a list of stuff I
like and stuff I don't like. 'You don't behave
out of pure curiosity.' Pure means simply? Disagree. There are a lot of instances
I behave out of curiosity. 'You have very active.'
I'm very active. Right? Does desire mean to
wanting to do this and that? Am I passionate?
Do I have a lot of passion? I pay attention to every detail. Which is basically an
explanation of my personality! 'Winning an argument is more important
that the other person's feelings.' So this is saying if we have an argument, I'd pay more attention to winning than the other person's feelings, right? No. I feel frustrated if the other
person isn't in a good mood. I feel like I'd feel sorry. Which is worse for me as well. 'You do not care about attention.'
If I don't care, I wouldn't be a celeb. But I'm not someone
who wants all the attention. But still, a lot of people
watch, so I'm satisfied. 'You don't get mad because of people.' I get over it very quickly. So yeah, I don't get mad. 'You plan ahead when going on a trip.' I did that when I was young. I even planned noted the train
schedules when I was with my friends. I looked up all of that
and let my friends know. And I planned where we
should go to do what and stuff. But after coming to Korea,
I don't do that anymore. When I went to Hawaii
with MOMO, we planned stuff but in the end, we just
said we'd enjoy ourselves. We went with no plans at all. 'A fun book or game is
better than meeting people.' Playing games with people is more fun! 'When someone doesn't reply to an email...' 'You wonder if you'd made a mistake.'
Agreed. Then... I go into that chatroom and look and see if I'd made a mistake. I think about what I said and
what I could have said differently. 'You're sometimes caught
thinking about unrealistic situations.' Totally! I often thought about
going to that magical school. 'You questions the existence of man.' I'm really curious how we're alive as people
and what our purpose is. I'm really curious about that sometimes. 'You feel energetic after
spending time with people.' Yes. 'When you enter a room, you prefer
to sit near the walls than the center.' I was like that since I was young. Agreed. Oh, the results are out. Do I announce it? My results are... ENFP-T. I'll read the description. You are a campaigner! The Campaigner personality
is a true free spirit. A free spirit? Ah, I thought they
meant I'm a trouble maker. I think this is correct. The "pleasure of the moment" part. I think I agree with
everything stated here. 'People with this personality
type know when they need to relax.' I think that's correct. Everything is correct here. When they work, the work hard... '...can surprise even
their closest friends.' I think that's correct. If I understood it correctly. That's why I feel bad for the
other members sometimes. They would be resting... But I'd be all hyper all the time. So I always move somewhere else. I think it's so cool how ONCEs
thought I'd be this personality Right?
Does that make sense? I honestly thought... 'Surely not...' 'There are so many results!' It says my emotion is written
on my face, and it's true. There are time that it shows, but when I really want to hide my emotions, I can get away with it. 'Leaving after you've had your fun.'
That's me. 'Doesn't get angry.'
I don't. I think maybe around three to
five seconds is the maximum. Can't reject offers. I didn't know at first, But TZUYU said this. "When you ask SANA to do
something, she always replies with 'Yes.'" I thought about it after TZUYU said that. Oh... I think that does happen often. 'You like meeting new people.'
I think this is true... On certain days,
and sometimes it isn't. It differs day by day. 'You can't do something you don't like.' Even if it something I don't like, I have to do it if it's work related. I'll probably do it. But I can't lie. Even thought I have to lie at some point, I feel like I'm lying to
myself so I don't do it. There are a lot of
parts where it is correct. I'm just... So fascinated by this. I'm so amazed how ONCE
guessed my test results. I hope they're curiosity is
resolved by watching this. Besides being correct and wrong, I think it's because they have a good
grasp of what my personality is like. I'm still amazed how they guessed it right. So this was SANA's MBTI until now. Thanks for watching! 