Oh! Give me my mic. Want to see me wearing my mic? "NAYEON!" I stayed up last night, so I'm slow.
Please understand. I'm not slowing down on pur-pose. I'm trying my fastest. I'll wear it now! I want to describe
this feeling in a word, but I don't know what it is.
Rather than sleepy... Not just sleep. I want a "deep sleep." "Deep sleep!" (Q. Why couldn't you sleep?)
With my life pattern, to leave at 1:50, I can't fall asleep. I actually woke up at 1:00.
I woke up at 1:00 PM, had lunch, and went to bed
between 7:00 PM and 8:00 PM. "I have to leave at 1:50, so I'll
wake up around 1:00 and take a shower." And I laid down.
I was very sleepy. I went to bed at 8:00,
but woke up at 12:00! At 12:00, I got so hungry, so I ordered cold buckwheat noodles
and tteokbokki on my own and ate it. After that, I had to take a shower. So I took a shower. After that,
I was told to head out. So I left. Now, I'm here.
(Then, NABONG was at "Inkigayo" LOL) This is like...
How ONCE leaves in the morning, I guess? Cheers! To everyone watching this, ONCE leaving from work,
scared about tomorrow, cheer up! This was Too-Much-Talker. It's early morning right now. When we wrap this up,
our first week is over. Today's the end of our first week,
so we'll do our best. Right now... ONCE can't watch
our stage themselves, which is unfortunate, but you gave us so much support, which drove us to work harder. We're so grateful. Both "M Countdown" and "Music Bank"
prepared pretty sets. I haven't seen the "Inkigayo" stage yet,
but I'm looking forward to it. (To. Our dear ONCE)
Hi, ONCE. I'm sad we can't meet, but thank you for
sending us lots of support. We'll do our best today! Bye. First week! Did our first week end already? We'll finish the third performance
of our first week at "Inkigayo." I always feel unsatisfied
with each promotion, but based on that discontent, I think I should do better
on the remaining performances, Many people enjoyed our comeback, and the reaction seems good, so we're happy, too. But this time, somehow, I'm feeling more
pressured about myself, to do better... I'll enjoy today's
"Inkigayo" performance, too! Let's go! I can't believe it's Sunday already. I can't even tell if
we made our comeback yet. We were on TV,
but I'm not sure. We filmed without our fans,
so I think that's why. This time, somehow... It feels as if we're
not appearing on music shows. So, it's very... ...strange, yet interesting. (Q. How was your first week?)
It's been nine months since we came here, so it felt like
a period of adjusting. It's been a while,
but we can't be with our fans, so the music shows
felt more awkward, It's our first
summer song after "DTNA," so everyone loves it. The choreography and
everything we'll show you has been... Upgraded?
...with our return, which must be why
the fans love it more. But we can't meet ONCE,
so that part makes me really sad. It's almost... 6:00 in the morning?
A little past 6:00. I'll strengthen up,
pretend our fans are here, do my best
and come back here! Cheers! It's 6:30 in the morning right now. It would have been better
if ONCE were here. Still, ONCE may not be with us, but we'll receive your support and do the best we can. Today's "Inkigayo" outfit is... what we wore in
our music video in Jeju Island! (A. How was your first week without ONCE?)
They're still sending lots of love, so I'm really grateful. I'm happy with our comeback, but music programs have the fun of conversing with ONCE. That part, I really miss. I can talk to ONCE
right away, directly, that very moment! So, Right before "I know I want it,"
ONCE would be going, "Wow!" If they gave us
words of support, it would cheer us up... Still, I'll do my best today as usual. It's our first promotion in a while, so it didn't feel real. Including today,
our first week is already over. Hmm... It still feels like a dream. Still, ONCE watched
our performances, complimented us, and so on, so I feel great. I'll do my best with
today's "Inkigayo" pre-recording. I think... The other members
might have said it, too, but we can't hear ONCE's cheers,
so it's a little disappointing, since it's not as uplifting,
in a sense. I just hope the situation
turns for the better. (Q. How's your condition today?)
I got up early, so I'm groggy right now. I also got a stye today... I got a stye
during our comeback week! It's literally an eyesore. We haven't, since "Heart Shaker," worn jeans together like this. But ONCE loved
our look back then, and since we're wearing
matching jeans together, I'm sure they will love this outfit. We wrapped up
our first week safely. Next week, we'll be performing again for ONCE to watch. We can't meet up, but please keep watching
through your monitors. See you! We just did a camera rehearsal, and I think
everyone looked pretty. (MINA the Penguin waddles) (TDOONG are back in the waiting room
for the monitoring!) So, we're ready for
the last performance of our comeback week. It's really tiring. (Whisper) But the whole set is so gorgeous,
so it's great. It suits us, and the members
look pretty in it, so I love it. Thank you for the huge support, ONCE. Next time, I wish we can
face each other like this when we're on stage. ONCE! See you soon! (Suddenly discussing the ending expression)
"TWICE's JIHYO, roar!" You do that. ♪ So one more time ♪
(Roar) You look like
you're eating spinach. "Roar!" Do it. (Time to watch NABONG's aegyo)
Do it! Why? Do it. ONCE, don't you want it? You know? A few times.
I tried that once. If I don't have it... (Gloomy Chaeng) - Isn't it weird?
- Who cares? I want to nyah-nyah. Hey! Then, do it with a nyah-nyah. How about this one? Biting your lips. That one. "Ugh!" Not bad. Not yet? Not yet? TZUYU, do you want to go? I want to finish quickly. Oh, no wonder. Yi-TZU-TZU... - TZU-TZU-ha? What was it?
- Yi-TZU-TZU-ha. Yi-TZU-TZU-ha!
(That's why they go "TZUYU, TZUYU") Yi-TZU-TZU! Let's do it! ONCE, let's do it! TWICE, let's do it! Ack! Let's do it! (Pre-recording's finally over!) Honestly, I didn't sleep well,
so it's a bit unfortunate. I did try my best, but at the end, I thought I was dying,
because I ran out of energy, and I was drowsy... So it was... I couldn't use my energy to the fullest,
so I'm a little let down, but the camera rehearsal turned out okay. But during the recording,
this got stuck here like this. I thought, "Argh, no way!" Still, I think I did my best. But this time, for sure,
since ONCE aren't here, doing the intense choreography
without ONCE is even harder. Definitely. Oh, hello! My - SANA's - condition,
and TWICE's condition right now, you can guess
by looking at me. (Inhaling and exhaling) Today's pre-recording...
I mean, we held many concerts, many comebacks,
and many dance practices, but it's my first time feeling
a tingle starting from my fingers. During the first filming,
after Verse 1 ended, I started tingling all over. It started from here. I was really flustered, but it ended safely! (Q. Were you sad that ONCE aren't here?)
I was, but today, I saw a Candy Bong near the cameras! So, when I saw it, ONCE wasn't present,
but it still cheered me up. So, TWICE's first week of
"MORE & MORE" promotion is over. Next week, we'll be on "Music Core..." "Music Core" and "Show Champion!" We have more to show you next week, so ONCE, you can look forward to it. Bye! 