- Hello everybody, this is Evan Abrams, and in this After Effects tutorial, we're actually gonna take a
step back from the program and talk about the career
of motion graphic design. I get a lot of questions on this topic, like, what do you do for a job? And is that really a job? How can I have that job? And so on. These are questions I get
on Facebook and Twitter and across the dinner
table at Thanksgiving. There's a lot of
judgement at Thanksgiving. There are three main ways that
you can get into this career. You are either an employee at something like a production company, where you work for a boss,
you work on projects, or you are a freelancer
where you work for yourself, but really you work for clients, or you create kind of content or products or something for other
people to use and buy where you don't really
interact with people except on a very abstract basis. No matter which of these
three streams you're into, there are a lot of things
that go into making a successful career. And you need certainly
the technical skills of using After Effects, using Cinema 4D, all these products. But you also need soft skills. You're gonna need to work with others, that interpersonal business
communication skills, all that stuff is important. And you really need to have
a diversity of these things if you're really gonna be successful. So the first and perhaps
most traditional form of having a job in motion graphics is to be an employee somewhere. This means being an employee of an agency, or a production company, a place where you'll
be working with a team and under a hierarchy of
directors and producers. And of course this comes
with great things like dental benefits, pay, you're getting a salaried job
where you come in for time and then you're paid for that time. So you can kinda know where
your money's coming from. Which is pretty great and
very comfortable way to live. And there's kind of vertical advancement, so you might start as an editor
and end as an art director, and eventually run the place who knows. That's the dream right? But to get into these
places is very challenging. The job market is not so great. There are very few jobs, and the jobs there are
are very competitive. So you're going up against
everyone who's just graduating, also up against people who
have just been transitioning from other parts of the industry. So it can be very dicey, and you really want to
make yourself stand out. So you're gonna wanna be
able to show off a portfolio, you wanna show off a reel, you wanna have a pretty nice CV or resume that you can send around. Which is very difficult when you're just getting into things. So, big tip is to make
sure that you're showing a variety of real things that you've done, and you're gonna wanna
build up a body of work. When you don't have
client work to show off, well you're gonna wanna
have some fairly good personal pieces. And hopefully over the course
of maybe a college program, you've built those up, or you've been going through
a lot of self-directed things and you've created interesting projects. But the big thing I'll say is you want to show off
a variety of skills. You want to show off you can
do 3D, you can do tracking, you can do some illustration, you can be the Swiss army knife that these people want
to slot into their team. I'm seeing more and more
that production companies are looking for people
who can do everything. They want one person who can
solve all these problems. And that's the big thing. They want someone who will
solve the problems they have so they don't have to get
another specialist in. Now the second way that we talked about was freelancing. This is where you're not
really an employee of a place, but you do work for somebody. You're always working
for a client of some kind if you're a freelancer. So those clients might
be production companies, and agencies, and large companies. But you don't have the same security, but you're also freer
to set your own hours, work wherever you like. I work from home. It's a pretty great deal. You might do that too. But you do have to
provide your own hardware, your own software, and you're basically your own business. So beyond having the
technical side of things, you really need to know how to
promote and market yourself. You need to know how
to negotiate contracts. You need to provide
excellent customer service so customers come back to you. You need a lot more of
those business skills and those soft skills to really make a go at being a freelancer. So you're gonna wanna run
advertising campaigns. You're gonna wanna maintain social media. Wink. And it's really important
to have these things going so that people can find you, you're not always hunting for a client. Hunting and prospecting for clients is a lot of hours and it's a lot of work. And you don't get paid
for it until you actually win some business. I will say a caveat here though is that I'm not a huge proponent
of going to contest sites and marketplaces for these things. In the early days, that can help build up a
portfolio of real work, but really devalues your time. So I don't always recommend it. There's some interesting
stuff out there certainly, and some people are posting jobs, but if you have to undercut your hours, that is not worth it. But the big way to make a go is to really have a strong body of work and to really be active and
engaged in the community. If you want to be a freelancer working for production companies, let them know who you are. And you're gonna have
to do some cold calls and get your name out there. So, nothing's really easy. it's great. And finally the third facet, the third stream, the third
pillar, the third metaphor of all this stuff is making products and selling
them directly to customers or making content and
hoping people watch it. This is stuff you can do self-directed, there's no client, there's no set hours, there's no place to go in to do this. You just do it on your own, and you try to make sure
that people come to it and use it and like it. This requires a high amount of
sort of marketing knowledge, knowledge of where
you're gonna sell things, who you're gonna sell them to, and you need a high amount
of technical ability to make something with real
utility to your customers. And if I'm saying customers, you definitely need some kind
of customer service knowledge, and you might need to build a website, you might need to do a lot of things, to really build a business around that. So it has the same kind of challenges as being a freelancer, but you don't really
work with clients per se. You also have the added challenge of trying to stay on top of trends and keeping your old customers happy by giving them something
that they'll like. This can be lots of things
in the motion graphics space. It could be making templates,
you could be making fonts, you could be making stock video, you could be making some kind of plugins, you could be doing scripting, you could be doing a lot of things. Things that other motion designers need, or that maybe video editors need. You need to kind of figure
out who your products are going to, what they
wanna get from them. You might even be making content. Content like this channel. it'll be great, you'll love it. And all of this is to say that career of motion design
is kinda challenging sometimes, but there's also no one way to do it. There's no one way to be. There's no single best way to
be a motion graphic designer or a visual effects artist. I mean in V effects you're kinda tied into the movie industry or production companies
and that kinda thing, but that isn't to say
you won't also be dealing with the challenges of
freelancing versus employment versus making something you
can just pass on to customers. So all of these things
in the creative field are pretty applicable. So hopefully this has been
helpful to you guys out there looking to get a job. I know it's tough out there, but if you have any
questions about this stuff that we're talking about here, please let me know in the comments. This is definitely something
I wanna answer for you guys. And if there's enough questions, we'll probably end up doing another video to try to cover those frequently
asked career questions. That kinda sounds like a nice segment. Anyway, the point is,
if you have questions, ask me in the comments. And if you like learning
about After Effects and motion design, please
subscribe to this channel. That's what we talk about
here, it's what we do. It's what I do 24/7 all day
every day, all the years, so I like to share that with you guys. And hopefully you enjoy
hearing me talk about it, which is great, I love the involvement. So like I said comment, subscribe. If you just want to
talk about After Effects and motion graphics in general, hit me up on Twitter @ECAbrams, or get involved on the Facebook page. Links to all that stuff
is in the description. But that's it for me. Like I said if you enjoy this stuff, subscribe to the channel. Thank you so much for watching, and if you subscribe, I'll
see you around the internet. 