(EP. 4)(Weee:kloud)
(Break the stage! Stage brake behind.mp4) This is Earth... A place like this? (PD : Where are we?) We are in Paju It's a studio in Paju For STAGE BREAK To break the stage We're here in Paju to film (So_pretty_classroom_ studio.mp4) (PD : Earlier a staff said,
'You shouldn't touch the props'...) (Soojin's_selfie_video.mp4) This school has a lot of events There's a science club I don't think I'll join it Uh? Oh, dance party Hosted by PlayM Weeekly... Most Famous Group? (Happy) (Weeekly is all together after
finished prepping for filming!) (So playful before filming? lol) (The minute they start_
Jihan's_hair_stuck_NG.mp4) (As expected_Weeekly_performance.mp4) (Powerful 'Pretty U' by Weeekly) ('Fancy', remake by Weeekly!) (I care about you every moment) (Gathered_monitoring.mp4) (Out of the blue _stage break_
acrostic poem.mp4) I'm here to film a stage break Tae The more takes it took to film I feel like we're getting better This This perfect stage brake Keu Please look forward to it
since it comes out before Christmas (So proud) (Jihan films TikTok  between shoots♪) (Woooow!) BRAVA BRAVI I learned it at school Just watching unnies I deeply admire What's that? (What?) This studio is so beautiful (PD : Which one is more pretty,
studio or Jihan?) Oh, of course...this studio Yes, right Jihan is pretty No matter what they say,... Jihan is pretty When we do Harley Quinn later How studio and lights will change I wonder how makeup will change (Already_scary_studio.mp4) My concept for today is I'll be a scary girl Do I look like a zombie? Dance is of course important But keep an eye on 
changes in facial expression I think you can enjoy it more Do I look like Jaehee to you? I'm not Jaehee anymore, I'm Jessica - My English name is Jessica
- Really? Jaehee is mild-mannered Jessica is a little charismatic? I'm surprised every time
I look in the mirror (Soeun photographer_
takes a picture _Monday.mp4) I wore a lot of rings today I'm wearing four rings now (PD : In case the younger members
don't listen to you..?) I'm gonna get them No, I'm a pacifist Even if they don't listen to me I can totally understand (PD : What if they don't understand?) Hey, guys You'll understand me, right? This leather strap, this harness Well, more accurately, this harness When my mom walks her dogs, Miho & Sooni She put on a harness I'm not a dog, but Jiyoon, let's go, come on Bow wow! I'm human, but I wore a harness This pigtails are the point I look like a naughty girl Bling bling accessories Cute heart, couple earrings with Jaehee... ...And Do you see my ring earrings? I usually... My eyes are sore Ring earrings... My eyes are sore Wait a moment Uh-huh Something's in my eyes Do you want me to blow it for you? Can you see it? (Care for_unnie_the youngest.mp4) I can't see Where? (At last_a staff_helped.mp4) One, two, three Fighting~ A little scary version Fighting (Scary but cool Harley Quinn dance!) (We'll work..more..fervently.mp4) (Stage break that showed
Weeekly's unexpected charm!) (They wrap up filming monitoring~!) (Hardworking_Weeekly_let's all clap.mp4) So far This was Weeekly, thank you Bye~ 