Hey guys, I’m here, let’s get technical.
This green garbage bin is an “Organic Waste” bin, and it’s for everything from food scraps
to yard trimmings. Every resident of the San Francisco Bay Area is equipped with one of
these, but then where does all of that organic waste go? *music* This is South Valley Organics (a compost processing
plant in Gilroy, California), and, here, around 40,000 tons of organic waste from people all
over the Bay Area gets turned into compost. South Valley Organics actually used to be
a landfill, but around 10 years ago they covered it up, and, now, it turns organic waste into
compost. And South Valley Organics isn’t the only
place that does this. Up north, in Vacaville, California, Jepson Prairie Organics processes
around 100,000 tons of organic material from Bay Area residents, making it one of the largest
composting operations in the United States. These two composting facilities work together
to power San Francisco’s compost program, which is quite possibly one of the best city-wide
compost programs in the US. In the modern age, we’re incredibly disconnected
from our trash. Every night after dinner, I throw my food waste away in the garbage and
don’t even think twice about it, and, if I were of legal age to be a betting man, I’d
bet you’d do something similar too. Today, let’s change that disconnectedness
by taking a deep dive into the fascinating world of urban composting. To do this, I wanna
answer three questions: One. Why do we need city-wide compost programs?
Two. How do city-wide compost programs work? Three. What makes San Francisco’s compost
program so great? Part the first: why do we need city-wide compost
programs? The United States has a massive food waste
problem. About 40% of food in the US — or around 1,500 calories per person per day — goes
uneaten. That’s over 870 million Big Macs worth of food calories, which is over two
times as much as most other industrialized nations, and enough calories to feed the entirety
of Germany, Canada, and Australia combined. Breaking food loss down into more specific
categories: we waste around half of all fruits, vegetables, and seafood, 1/3 of all grains,
and 1/5 of all meat and dairy. Moreover, the amount of food we’ve been wasting has been
increasing; food waste today is 50% more than what it was in the 1970s. Ah but Alex, you might say, I read that study
once that said just 100 companies are responsible for over 70% of global CO2 emissions, so while
it is helpful that I take the train instead of drive and use my HydroFlask (registered
trademark) instead of plastic bottle, if we really want to curb climate change, we need
to have top-down action. And wouldn’t it be the same for food? I mean yeah, I don’t
finish my kale sometimes but (1) can you blame me and (2) that can’t be the real cause
of the problem; big food is up to their old, not-green habits. *laughs* Um, ok yeah, 61% of food waste occurs
in the home, so, if we, as consumers, worked to eliminate food waste, we’d make some
very considerable progress in solving this problem. And solving food waste would be a pretty impactful
thing to solve. 30% of our fertilizer, 31% of our cropland, 25% of our freshwater,
and 2% of our total energy goes into producing the food that we don’t even eat. That’s inconceivable.
Yeah, Princess Bride nice. Oh my god the graphics have a mind of their own. That’s food that ends up in landfills; a
matter of fact, there’s more food in landfills than any other thing we throw away, and, there,
it produces methane, a greenhouse gas that’s 28 to 36 times more potent than CO2. Some modern landfills have methods of capturing
methane and either destroying it or turning it into fuel, but that’s certainly not the
majority because landfills still account for over 14% of methane emissions in America in
2017, making them the third-largest source of man-made methane emissions in the US. All in all, the amount of global food loss
in 2009 alone was the cause behind 3,300–5,600 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions,
and even if you didn’t care about environmental impacts, food waste is bad for your wallet.
The average family of four in the US spends around $1,600 a year on food that goes in
the trash. Hmm. Ok so how can we solve this problem? Well, there’s two strategies we
can use. Firstly, you can mitigate your personal food
waste. I’m sure at one point your parents told you to “take only what you can eat,”
so follow that and tell others to as well. Secondly, you can try to mitigate the effect
of the (hopefully minimal) food waste you do have through composting. What is compost?
Quite simply, it’s decomposed organic matter which can be used as a fertilizer. But, Alex, you might be thinking, if I create
a compost pile, it’s not gonna help anything. Like, I know the EPA says composting leads
to higher crop yields, but it’s not like I’m going around, yielding crops all the
time, in need of compost to better the process. There’s nothing I can do with a ton of compost. Well, you’re right. Not everyone’s a farmer,
and not everyone needs compost. So for us to really harness the benefits of compost,
we’d need to implement city-wide programs to collect organic waste and turn it into
compost for farmers. But, is that even possible? Part the second: how do city-wide compost
programs work? There are two essential components to a successful
city-wide compost program: collection and processing. Collection actually begins far before any
garbage truck is deployed, because the biggest hurdle to jump is simply peopling not knowing
what can and can’t be composted. People are pretty terrible at this. Compost facilities
have found basically anything you can think mixed in with organic waste, from pencils
to computers. Indeed, the day I visited South Valley Organics, they just got in a new shipment
of organic waste, and in it was a plastic helmet and this brick. Listen, I’ve been
working on this video for months now and I have no idea who’d think it would be a good
idea to compost a brick. Perhaps unsurprisingly, food waste that comes
from schools tends to be especially filled with non-food-waste trash. If you yourself
are curious as to what can and cannot be composted, feel free to pause the video right now and
take a look at this chart. Processing is the next stage of the operation.
After all of the organic waste is collected, processing starts when composting plants take out all that stuff that can’t be composted. Then, the waste is grinded up using this industrial-sized
grinder, making it the ideal size for microorganisms to do their job and start decomposing. The
resulting product is placed into these massive, long piles called windrows. One thing that really surprised me is how
hot the compost gets; a matter of fact, you could even sometimes see steam coming from
the windrows, and that’s because their ideal operating temperature can get between 140
and 149°F or 60 and 65°C. Why is that? Well, 80% to 90% of all microorganisms found
in those compost piles are bacteria, and those bacteria can be divided into two groups: aerobic
and anaerobic. Anaerobic bacteria — or bacteria which do
not require oxygen — are lowkey kinda useless and give compost any of the bad smells you
might usually associate with it, but aerobic bacteria, or bacteria which require oxygen
levels of at least five percent, are the highest iq because they can consume basically anything
but love turning nitrogen into protein and carbon into energy. This process generates
a lot of heat. However, if the temperature gets hotter than
160ºF, it can hurt the aerobic bacteria, and, thus, the productivity of the decomposition,
so compost piles must be turned and exposed to air in order to cool ‘em down. Bonus
points: doing that exposes the pile to oxygen, which, as we all know aerobic bacteria needs
to operate. And temperature isn’t the only condition
that needs to be ideal; we also gotta make sure the pile has enough water so that it’s
MOIST but not sopping wet and the ratio of carbon to nitrogen in the pile is somewhere
between 25:1 and 30:1. Woah; in learning about why compost gets so
hot, we also learned about how compost works. Huh; it’s almost like I planned that. Wow.
Cool. Sweet. Radical. Amazing. Awe-- After between a couple weeks and a couple
months, the compost is done and ready to sell back to farmers in the area. *big exhale*
Wooah. Okay. So those are some pretty thicc logistics, but do they actually work everywhere?
Eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeh? New York City rolled out it’s composting
program in 2017. It’s currently voluntary, and the advertising around the program is
minimal, so they don’t have anywhere close to 100% participation. There’s certainly
the potential for that program to be profitable, but it made only $58,000 in 2017, compared
to the well over $15 million cost of the program itself. There are currently no plans to expand
the program. Huh. But, wait, check out this article: San Francisco sends less trash to
the landfill than any other major U.S. city. And it’s, in part, because the compost program
in San Francisco is thriving. So, we know it can be done, but how? Part the third: What
makes San Francisco’s compost program so great? This 27-page document is the San Francisco
Mandatory Recycling and Composting Ordinance. It was passed back in 2009, and it requires
all San Franciscans to sort their garbage into recyclables, organic waste, and classic
trash. This was completely unprecedented at the time because it was America’s first
mandatory composting law. Is this what makes San Francisco’s program so great? Yes and
no. Yes, because this is incredibly important, but no, because saying this ordinance alone
is responsible for SF’s composting success doesn’t take into account the nuance of
trash collection in the city. There are two reasons SF’s compost program is so great. This is the first is their exclusive partnership
with the waste management company Recology. While cities like New York have hundreds of
companies competing to collect waste from residents and businesses, San Francisco only
works with Recology, decreasing administrative friction, which, in turn, means it’s a lot
easier to try new things. Indeed, in the past, San Francisco and Recology
have ran many “pilot programs” (which are small scale tests of larger projects done
to see if those projects would be successful). And many of these pilot program turned out
really well. For example, in 1996, the curbside collection of food scraps was pilot tested,
and, it went so well that the project was rolled out to the whole city in 2001. Additionally, the genius of San Francisco’s
whole waste management system is that it’s structured so that Recology has strong financial
incentives to divert waste from landfills. Recology has a lot of stake in various recycling
and composting facilities around the Bay Area, but they don’t have stake in landfills,
so it’s to their benefit to move as much waste as possible to recycling and composting
plants. Ok, so what’s the second reason San Francisco’s
compost program is so great? Well, quite simply, the government wants it. Composting has the
full support of the San Francisco government. It all started in 1989, with, actually, the
state government. The California Assembly passed the Integrated Waste Management Act,
which set the goal of a diversion rate of 25% by 1995 and 50% by 2000. A diversion rate
is the measure of how much trash you’re diverting from landfills by recycling or composting
that trash. At the time, San Francisco’s diversion rate was 10%, which means it was
sending 90% of its trash to landfills. Over the next decade, San Francisco invested
cash money into making their waste management system as environmentally friendly as possible,
and, by 2000, they hit their goal of 50%. But San Francisco said “we can do even better,”
and, in 2002, SF’s Board of Supervisors passed the Zero Waste Goal, requiring San
Francisco to have a diversion rate of 75% by 2010 and 100% by 2020. That’s right:
San Francisco wants to send no trash to landfills. And they’re like kinda doing it. Thanks to all of these legislations, in 2007,
the city reached a diversion rate of 72%, while California, like the state as a whole,
was hovering at 52%. But San Francisco realized that, without people sorting recyclables,
compost, and trash in their homes, they wouldn’t be able to stay on target and reach their
goal of zero waste. And that’s where this comes in: the 2009 Mandatory Recycling and
Composting Ordinance. We’ve come full circle. Thanks to this thing, in 2018, the city hit
a diversion rate of 80%. That means over 1.5 million tons of garbage are diverted from
landfills every year. That’s insane. So, no, San Francisco doesn’t send no waste
to landfills, but they’ve gotten pretty darn close, at least, closer than any other
major US city, and that means they’re doing something right. What’s the future for compost in San Francisco?
Well, if everyone were to fully abide by this law and separate their trash, SF would be
able to achieve a diversion rate of 90%, so the city is continuing to work towards that
and find ways to get that last 10%. Luckily, the future looks bright because the residents
are on their side. Before this law was enacted, the city surveyed a bunch of apartment owners
and found that 85% of ‘em really liked the program, and, like, when was the last time
that many people agreed on anything political. Obviously, there is a lot we need to do to
fight climate change, and even that’s an understatement. But one factor we need to
look at is what we do with our food and what we do with our waste. And compost is the brilliant
solution to both of those things. HECC, the fact that you’ve made it this
far in a video about composting shows that you care about this and it’s a solution
worth fighting for. So, now that you know why we need city-wide compost
programs, how they work, and why San Francisco’s is so great, you can advocate for them where
you live and in the conversations you have. And, in doing so, we’ll make the world just
a little bit greener. You know, this past year, I’ve become even
more interested in fighting climate change because it really is an issue of international
security, and it’s not the only security threat that’s unique to the modern age.
For instance, between weak passwords and data Wooo, this video is finally done! I’ve never spent this much time on a video.
I didn’t time track it or anything, but I’m guessing I spent between 60-70 hours
on this. I’m incredibly happy with how it turned out, and I hope you are too. Uh and
if you are, it’s super helpful if you share this video with someone, or click the like
button, or support me on Patreon. Big thanks to my Patreon supporters (especially those
on screen right now); they really help make this content possible. And if you too wanna
invest in not just Technicality but also me (as a person) please check out patreon.com/technicality.
Thank you. We just hit 50,000 subscribers, which is mind-blowing and incredible. Thank you! My next video will probably be a 50k subscriber
Q and A, so leave any questions in the comments below. Seriously, thank you for watching,
DFTBA, and explore on. 