[Ganondorf's horse snarling] Epona was always a bit strange to me in Ocarina
of Time. I often found myself so focused on the main
quest at hand during my first play through that I didn’t really focus a whole lot on
some of the side aspects. Things like Epona or obtaining Biggoron’s
Sword were only things I were drawn into because I saw my older brother spending his time playing
fulfilling them. Epona wasn’t needed to complete the main
story, and although most players associate her with the mighty jump across the downed
bridge in Gerudo Valley, you can make it across with the longshot as well. So the whole obtaining Epona thing wasn’t
something I was immediately interested in. But as time went on and I began to explore
the world more and more, I became interested in something else. Rumors began to arise and tie themselves to
specific challenges and players were drawn back to the ranch. Because when you go to Lon Lon Ranch, you
actually have another choice besides Epona. And even with this horse, you’re capable
of challenging Ingo. Of course, try all you want, but you end up
losing the race. It isn’t until you get Epona that you can
finally defeat Ingo and take your prize. But for some of us that wasn’t enough. When we are presented with a challenge we
try our best to see it out to the very end. And thus, here we are. Gathered here today to talk about how we once
thought beating Ingo with a plain horse was part of something bigger… A way to unlock Ganondorf’s black horse
by altering the timeline. So the idea of absurdly hard, senseless challenges
isn’t new to Zelda fans. I mean, the running man exists after all. That was the peak of ridiculousness that we’ll
cover another day. So given that we’re playing a game where
our actions in the past affect the future, we’re planted with the idea to always think
about cause and effect. The world of Ocarina of Time was rewarding
when it came to exploration and experimentation, so it totally made sense to try lots of things. And even though some of us eventually knew
that we could unlock Epona, we were still presented with a what if scenario. Because turning back the clock, when I was
watching my brother play, I would often try to take in as much Zelda as I could. We’d split up our play sessions between
us siblings but we generally would always watch the others play. But during these times I would often read
the instruction manual that came with the game, and I think that’s where these delusions
began. So on page 38 of the Ocarina of Time instruction
booklet, you have a section simply labeled as “Ride a Horse”. It went as follows: Quote: “Traveling by
foot in Hyrule can take a long time. It’s a good idea to use a horse. Horses can be found at Lon Lon Ranch. With a horse, you’ll be able to cross the
Hyrulian plains in no time. Although you can only ride the horse at certain
places, it will always be waiting for you if you need to go somewhere. You must do something special before you can
ride the horse, and you can only ride it when Link is an adult.” End quote. It goes on for another sentence to talk about
carrots, but this page alone made me think that choosing a horse to use was up to your
discretion. The way it talks about horses and how it vaguely
keeps the label at just “horse” - and not Epona, certainly made me think so. I mean, everything else is fully explained
in this instruction book - from every piece of equipment you get on your journey, to the
time traveling characteristics between being a child and adult, to even certain enemies
and names you’ll encounter. The vagueness of the label of just “horse”
makes it seem like you can choose any, or that any one particular horse isn’t too
important. Obviously we are introduced to Epona when
we are still a child, but the fact that we can race Ingo with a horse that isn’t Epona
still fed into this belief. But the fact that this task felt impossible
due to the horse stalling out always left us feeling like we weren’t really good enough. Or perhaps we did something wrong. In other games, when we had to lose to a boss,
or fail a task to progress a story - we at least got satisfaction afterwords. But Ingo just pokes fun at us for looking
mad and offers us a chance at another race. So you bet 50 more rupies and saddle up again. Because you had to pay to lose, it made it
feel like it was your fault for losing. Obviously when we come back with Epona things
certainly change. We smoke Ingo and jump out of the ranch to
freedom. Mind you, looking back at it now, this fall
should have broken your horses legs outright… I mean, that’s like thirty or forty feet. Yikes. Anyways, one of the main reasons I pushed
on in this unfair race was because of the wide variety of horses we encounter in the
game. From Ganondorf’s massive black stallion,
to Zelda’s white one, to technically the brown one we could ride in Lon Lon Ranch. It would have been absolutely awesome to be
able to unlock these horses and use them in the world. And of course, the rumors surrounding absurd
challenges in the game didn’t help. There was always something to seek out and
discover. Each task part of a bigger puzzle. And it was often the impossible tasks that
sucked the most. Not being able to beat the running man, or
failing to beat Ingo meant you couldn’t write off that it was a ruse. And that’s when rumors began to circulate
around actually beating Ingo. I’m not sure if something like this existed
world-wide or if it was just a local wild goose chase, but the concept was this: Within
the game, Ingo is planning on giving away Epona to Ganondorf as a gift. Now, this all changes because we get to keep
whatever horse we win the race with. And by default we can only win with Epona. So, the story progresses with us winning Epona. But, hypothetically, if we were to win with
a different horse - technically we should be gifted that horse instead of Epona. So the rumor was that if actually beat Ingo
with a plain horse, this plain horse became your actual horse for the game. Ingo then gave Epona to Ganondorf like the
game had explained in the in-game dialogue, and because he now had Epona to ride, he would
then leave his horse at the ranch. Given that Ganondorf has influence over the
ranch, this sounded extremely possible. If he’s riding his new horse Epona, why
not shelter his existing horse at the ranch right outside of his giant castle? And this created the situation in which you
could then obtain Ganodorf’s horse that was currently residing in the ranch. A horse that basically had infinite carrots. Now obviously, fast forwarding two decades
later and we know this isn’t the case. Ingo cannot be beaten through normal means,
and even if you beat him through cheating, the story still plays out as if you beat him
with Epona. After the race you’ll still be riding the
horse you won on, but immediately upon exiting the ranch you’ll be swapped out to be on
top of Epona. Some speed runners skip this entire race all
together and simply glitch their way over the side of the ranch, which triggers the
Epona escape cutscene regardless if you did the race or not. But one thing I do find interesting, is that
although it was never doable on the Nintendo 64 version of the game, someone did figure
out a way to beat Ingo on the 3DS version with a normal horse… And it’s actually quite clever. Instead of racing head to head with Ingo,
they pause halfway through the race and wait for him to get way ahead. Due to how the 3DS processes objects in the
distance, Ingo actually gets unloaded when he gets super far away from you, thus when
he moves over the finish line, it doesn’t register that he crossed it. So you can then speed up and clear both races
using this same methodology to actually defeat Ingo without using any cheats. Sure it’s a system limitation exploit, but
it’s pretty darn genius. Upon winning, the same thing happens though. He talks as if you are on Epona, and in the
end, you win Epona instead of the horse you are on. I tried my own variant of this on the Nintendo
64 version of Ocarina of Time by cheating, but unfortunately it was to no avail. I thought I’d be clever and try to unload
Ingo’s horse from the race so that he would stall out at the starting line, but that didn’t
work at all because we both have the same horse. Removing the object from the game’s memory
made both of us just float in place without any way to move. Curses… Foiled again. Since that didn’t work, I figured I’d
try unloading the gate to the actual ranch and race him on the inside of the fence, thus
cutting down on the circumference of my entire race track - but that doesn’t work either
since the checkpoints for the race are only on the path that’s outside of the center
area. Of course, even if these things did work,
they’d just end up as the same result as before. We’d beat Ingo, but Epona would be given
to us as a reward instead. So although the quest for Ganondorf’s Gerudo
Stallion ended up being a bust, it was sort of liberating to hear that someone did end
up clearing the challenge on a normal horse years later. It truly would have been awesome to have been
prancing around on Ganondorf’s horse as a way to rub in your victory. Although I guess I’ll have to settle for
wrangling that giant one in Breath of the Wild. As a last quick note, it is possible to spawn
various horses through modifying the game’s code, like Ganondorf’s and Zelda’s, but
generally a lot of these horses are just cutscene animations so when spawned they just continually
run in place. Regardless of what you do, you can’t interact
with them or climb them. They have collision like a normal horse, but
nothing can be done. However, a few years back I knew an awesome
modder called airikitascave had been working on making obtaining Ganondorf’s horse a
reality, which is where some of the footage from this video came from. I reached out and they were super helpful
with obtaining the “what if” scenario footage for this video. So in some ways it was neat to see Link finally
riding through Lon Lon Ranch upon the mysterious legend that I had hunted for quite a while. Some people may argue that Ganondorf’s horse
actually perished in the adult timeline, possibly becoming part of the vessel that was Phantom
Ganon - but I like to believe it’s still out there somewhere. But, with that, did you ever try to beat Ingo
on a normal horse yourself? Any rumors circulating around Ganondorf’s
horse? Share your story in the comments below. And with that… Thanks for watching guys and gals - and until
my next video, cheers! 