In 2002, a South African businessman by the
name of Keith Irwin came to Miami to buy, surprisingly, not drugs. You see, he and his partners had secured a
contract to deliver fuel to diamond mines in Angola. Small problem—there was a civil war going
on. Now, wars and ground-based fuel supply chains
go together like Taco Bell and the human digestive system—explosively. Therefore, they would deliver fuel by plane
and that’s what Irwin came to Miami to buy. He had found a 25 year-old Boeing 727 that
had recently been retired from service with American Airlines. The plane was in good condition but had been
around for about as long as Angola had even been a country so the agreed purchase price
was a reasonable $1 million with $125,000 paid upfront as a down payment and the rest
due within 30 days because they knew they would need a good foreshadowing moment. Irwin and the crew he hired to operate it
then flew the plane to Luanda—Angola’s capital. The company that had hired Irwin was supposed
to pay him $220,000 once the plane arrived in the country but instead, they decided to
not—which was a bummer. The other totally unpredictable bummer was
that apparently the accommodations and quality of life in the middle of the war zone were
less than stellar. Given that, two of the airplane’s hired
crew turned right back around and returned to the US. You would have thought that American pilots,
given that they have to spend lots of time in places like Newark, would be used to war
zone conditions. Since the first client seemed to not really
exist anymore, Irwin found a new one and they got to flying. Through time, though, each crew member experienced
their own set of terrifying and traumatizing events that made them each eventually decide
to return back to the US and so the plane ended up being operated by an all Angolan
crew and Irwin was left pretty much alone. Irwin still owed a lot of money on the plane
and eventually picked up a tail. Some guy would follow him around constantly. Irwin apparently believed that this tail worked
for one of his partners. Growing increasingly paranoid, Irwin would
blockade his hotel room door during the night by wedging a chair under the handle. Then, one night, someone, nobody really knows
who, bribed the hotel security guard, got a room key, and tried to get into Irwin’s
room. He yelled and scared them off, but the next
morning, he packed his bags and got out of Angola for good. With that, the plane was left all alone in
Angola. The original owner from Miami, who had never
been paid the full balance by Irwin, hired someone named Ben Padilla to go to Luanda
and repossess the plane. The problem, though, was that, by the time
Padilla got to Luanda, the 727 had been sitting around for a while with nobody responsible
for it—racking up parking fees, fines, and getting into a progressively more dysfunctional
state. It would take some time to get it back to
working order so Padilla hired a local mechanic crew to fix it up and, after some months of
work, it was almost ready to be flown down to Johannesburg to a new client. On May 23, 2003, though, the aircraft was
powered on, taxied to the runway without contacting air traffic control, and took off. There were no plans for the plane to take
off then, it never talked to air traffic control, best anyone could tell it was only Padilla
and a mechanic, who was not a pilot, onboard and the 727 typically needs three trained
aircrew to fly. Everyone was well and truly baffled. As this was only two years after 9/11, the
US was understandably concerned about a large plane being completely unaccounted for so
they immediately began searching for it. The plane had enough to fuel to fly 1,500
miles or 2,400 kilometers meaning it could have made it anywhere here—it was a large
search radius. Now, with airplanes, unless we’re talking
about Xenu’s Space Plane, there are really only two choices—they either land or they
crash. Now, option one’s problem is that the plane
was never found at any known airport. That seems to support option two’s plausibility
but the thing is, in the 16 years since its disappearance, not a shred of wreckage of
the 727 has ever been found, and that would be quite rare. To date, only one plane larger than this 727
has truly disappeared without a trace. This isn’t like loosing a prime minister—planes
are large and its just hard for them to truly disappear. Some have suggested that it was stolen in
order to run drugs for cartels or something like that, but that wouldn’t explain why
the plane still hasn’t been seen. Some others have suggested that this was a
case of insurance fraud, but that seems unlikely given that the owner had just spend a considerable
amount of money fixing up the plane and paying off fines. It wouldn’t make sense for them to go and
destroy it then for the insurance money. Also, since there has never been any proof
that the plane crashed or was stolen, the owner has never actually received any insurance
money. The location or fate of this plane is just
a true and complete mystery. Despite extensive efforts by the FBI, the
US state department, and plenty of investigative journalists, not a single piece of evidence
supporting any explanation for the 727’s disappearance has ever been found. It’s like it never existed. The explanation that most people seem to most
accept at this point is that someone was on board when Padilla and the mechanic boarded
the plane on that fateful night and held them at gunpoint—forcing them to take off in
order to steal the plane. Then, they presumably crashed—somehow, improbably,
without a trace. Now, one thing that I find interesting about
these fiery death tubes is that apparently, 95.7% of people inside them survive when they
crash. 