If you've played Minecraft for a long time now, you've probably ended up dying more times than you can count. When you die, You'll always get some sort of death message like shot by a skeleton or slain by zombie however, if you've paid close enough attention to them, you probably know how there are some really specific and weird ones such as Being withered away whenever you've been attacked by a wither or wither skeleton and have been given their effect In this video, We're gonna talk about some of the super interesting, most rare, and oddly specific death messages in Minecraft. So without any further ado, let's get right into it Let's start this video off with a bang, literally. In Minecraft when a player creates a firework with a firework star and a dye of any color, the fireworks created will explode in the air and give off a load of color. these fireworks will also deal damage to anything within the vicinity of the explosion. If a player creates a roof just above their character and begins to light off their fireworks, they will explode right next to the player causing them to be dealt a significant amount of damage. On top of that, if a player creates a firework with an explosion and a flight duration of one And if they attempt to use said fireworks while using an Elytra, they can be killed in midair as they don't leave the explosion radius quick enough. When killed, players will be shown the message: player went off with a bang. Be careful with your fireworks Continuing along with the theme of things going off with a bang, players can also be killed by lightning. When killed, the message will state: player was struck by lightning. While this is a very rare situation to actually be placed in in vanilla survival Minecraft, It's entirely possible and can even be replicated in Minecraft via a lightning farm. To find a video I made a while back about making a lightning farm, You can check that out above after we're done here. The specifics to getting struck by lightning are absolutely crazy, but it's entirely possible to get struck at random. it even happened to me when I was playing a match of death swap with log-dog zip Well you have to be extremely lucky or unlucky to die at random by lightning It's not to say It's a possible in true cartoon fashion Anvils might as well be useless if you can't be killed or at least maimed by one Just like in looney tunes tiny toons and so many other shows an VLEs can fall on a player and can actually kill them if they fall from high enough when killed players will be met with a player was squashed by a Falling anvil message. Well. It's certainly hard to squish yourself with your own anvil on accident It could definitely be used as a trap for another player if you happen to wire it up to a pressure plate or a trap Chest or something like that. I'm not saying you should squash your friends with an anvil but I'm not saying you shouldn't either Another way that players can be squashed in game is by entities or more precisely by passive mobs This one requires the max Anstie cramming game role to be set to anything other than zero Which by default it's set to 24 in survival minecraft When enough mobs enter a one block area with the player the extra mobs and player will begin to take damage when? Killed the message will read player was squished too much If you ever wanted to die in Minecraft, surrounded by chickens Now's your chance a more simple way to die in Minecraft But shows how oddly specific the game gets is when you die walking into a cactus while trying to escape a mom Yeah Because minecraft saves the data of what interacts with a player in case you die Mojang has coated in crazy examples of players attempting to escape death But finding it anyways the same ways to die comes in the form of drowning and falling into lava After being hit by a mob the thing to note about this death message however
is that the mob cannot get the final hit the object that kills you has to if the mob and object hit you on the Same tick the mob gets the kill if the object does they both do For players that play on hard or hardcore mode you may have seen this message once or twice if your hunger bar hits zero then You'll begin taking damage in hard and hardcore players will actually die because of this as you'd expect You'll literally starve to death as many players don't typically play on hard or hardcore mode You may have actually never seen this death message before Clearly you don't want to die in this way But if you want to give yourself a challenge not to then you could try surviving within these modes when a player gets underneath bedrock and into the void and Minecraft they'll begin taking damage at a specific depth for many going to the end is enough to see this message actually But for glitchers you can actually do it in the overworld in survival minecraft and in the nether as well While it's definitely not the easiest task to fall out of the world in survival minecraft in the overworld or the nether It's definitely possible and is worth the try for a video I made about breaking bedrock in survival minecraft you can check out the video that I have linked above a Super interesting fact about death messages is that pets will also receive their own messages similar to how a player does with facts about how they died if your pet wolf was killed by TNT It'll tell you just that if it was struck by lightning. It'll tell you if he died in any real major way It'll probably tell you about it on top of that super weird death messages that take extremely specific circumstances to recreate like player fell out of the water and others do exist some of them just have Problems working in general though the message player removed an Electra while flying doesn't always show up when you do what the name suggests With loads of crazy death messages out there. It's hard to imagine There are some we actually haven't experienced, but on that subject. What are some that you've experienced Do you have a favorite death message? What's your worst minecraft? Death that you've ever had let me know in the comment section down below But other than that that just about does it for me for now if you guys enjoyed this video Please consider leaving a like on it because it would really help out myself and MichaelMcChill who co-wrote and edited this video The channel and the video quite a lot, but anyways guys I hope you all enjoyed my name is Antvenom and I bid you all farewell Thanks so much for watching 