This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. With the CuriosityStream/Nebula bundle, for
under $15 a year, you can get access to both CuriosityStream and Nebula. So, let me start off this video by saying
that I do not believe in the Zodiac. But then again, I am a Taurus Rising, which
probably explains why I’m so skeptical. Regardless of whether or not you’re a Zodiac
Thriller, though, it turns out that there’s actually cold hard evidence of the hot soft
idea that your birth month affects your life. Now, if you’re the type of person who loves
starting sentences with, “hey, did you know,” then you’ve probably read Malcolm Gladwell’s
Outliers—and thus, you’ve probably heard of something called the relative age effect. Basically, ol’ Malc did some calc and found
that people born in the earlier months of the year—January, February, and March—tend
to have various advantages over people born later in the year. The classic example comes from a 1985 study
into elite junior hockey leagues. This is a graph of how many kids are born,
on average, each month, and this is a graph of the month that players in the OHL—the
Ontario Hockey League—were born. As you can see, there are way more players
born in the earlier months of the year as opposed to the later months. Now, the reason for that isn’t that January
gives Canadians magic hockey powers—the only way to get those is to sacrifice a moose. The reason that January is arbitrarily extraordinary
is that age cutoffs for most youth hockey leagues are on January 1st—that means that
if a kid was born in January, they’ll compete in the same age group as kids born in December
of that year, but they’ll be almost a year older than them. And when the kids are only eight or nine,
an eleven-ish month advantage means they’ll be significantly more physically developed,
and thus better at hitting the slippery disk into the rope cage. Now, of course, by the time a player is old
enough to reach an elite league like the OHL, an 11-month age difference won’t lead to
as significant an advantage anymore, but in the meantime—and this is the important part—the
kids with January birthdays, because they were better developed early on, will have
been singled out years ago, and given more coaching attention, put in the game more,
be more likely to make competitive youth teams, and be less likely to regularly leave their
skate guards on and fall immediately upon entering the rink. Not that that ever happened to me. The point is, once those kids with January
birthdays are older and their relative age advantage has worn off, they’ll have actually
gotten better at hockey than the kids with late birthdays, because of that positive feedback
loop. To be clear, this phenomenon doesn’t actually
have anything to do with being born earlier in the year—it’s just about what month
the heartless bureaucrats of youth sports decide to put in their age cutoffs. In England, the age cutoff for soccer is September
1st, which is why kids born in September through December tend to do best. 57% of players at Premier League academies
were born in September, October, November, or December—and only 14% were born in May,
June, July, or August—and according to this stock footage guy who does all my math calculations,
14 is less than 57 by “at least 5, maybe more.” And it’s not just sports: academic years
in the US also tend to start September 1st, which is why kids with September birthdays
tend to excel, and kids with August birthdays tend to struggle. And like the bullying that comes with having
nine fingers, the relative age effect continues even past school: US Senators and Representatives
all tend to be on the older side of their grade. See, it turns out Washington isn’t just
biased based on age, race, gender, and wealth! It’s also biased on birth month! But we’re not here just to repeat things
from Malcolm Gladwell books—that’s a job for your sister’s fiancé. In fact, we’re here to be the opposite of
Malcolm Gladwell. We’re Buen-go Sadsick, because we’re going
to tell you about a second, opposing effect that does the exact opposite of the relative
age effect: it’s called the underdog effect. You see, while sports leagues do tend to overrepresent
people who are relatively older in their age groups, a 2013 study showed that when you
consider not just athletes in professional leagues, but star athletes in those leagues—the
elite of the elites, the crème de la crème, the Joe of the Jonases—you see a reverse
of the relative age effect. If we look again at hockey, we see that while
it’s true there are more players born from January to March, we also see that players
who were younger for their age grouping—born from October to December, are better players. They last longer in the league, they’re
paid more, and they hit the slippery disk into the net cage more than their early-month
counterparts. For US sports, given the traditional September
1st cutoff, an August birthday makes you as young as possible for your grade—and yet,
two of the last eight people to become NBA MVPs—Kobe Bryant and James Harden—were
both born in August. Not to mention, Tom Brady, probably the best
American football player of all time, was translated from a J Crew mannikin into a real
boy in August, as was Mike Trout, who’s widely considered the best player currently
in the MLB. The idea behind the underdog effect is, basically,
that if a younger athlete manages to overcome the relative age effect, it was probably for
a reason—like talent, or skill, or grit, or being really good at deflating footballs. Further, they might benefit from playing against
relatively older kids—providing them compelling competition that can push them forward. There are also, by the way, some actual physiological
differences between people born in different months—mostly based on seasonal trends seen
in expectant mothers’ diet and hormones. 