In one of the opening scenes of "A Christmas Carol"
by Charles Dickens,  Ebenezer Scrooge declares to his young nephew Fred "If I could work my will,  every idiot who goes about with 'Merry Christmas' on his lips should be boiled in his own pudding, and buried with a stake of holly through his heart."  That's my best Scrooge you just got there.  Now old Ebenezer clearly does not like Christmas,   so I'm guessing he's not going to be watching 
this video, humbug!   But for those of us who just love the season I give you a traditional 
Dickensian Christmas pudding.  So thank you to CuriosityStream for sponsoring this video as we look at a Christmas tradition steeped   in history, myth, and most importantly brandy.  Christmas pudding,  this time on Tasting History.   Now there are recipes for plum pudding or figgy 
pudding which are pretty much the same thing   dating all the way back to the 1600s, but what 
I wanted to find was a pudding that's actually   called a Christmas pudding, and the first recipe 
I could find came from the 1837 American cookbook   "The Housekeeper's Book", but that's not the one that 
i'm using today because just a few years later in   1845 Eliza Acton published her seminal work "Modern 
Cookery for Private Families", and the reason that   I'm using that one is because someone on Instagram 
sent me an early edition of the book.   It smells amazing, does anyone else do that? I don't know. 
I love the smell of books, um so the fact that   I like have this, how could I not use it. So 
thank you Joshua for sending me this, my first   early edition cookbook of any kind.  The Author's Christmas Pudding  To three ounces of flour, and the same weight of fine, lightly-grated bread-crumbs, add six of beef kidney suet, chopped small,   six of raisins weighed after they are stoned, six of 
well-cleaned currants,  four ounces of minced apples   five of sugar, two of candied orange-rind, mace   half a teaspoon full of nutmeg mixed with pounded mace, a very little salt, a small glass of brandy, and 
three whole eggs.  Mix and beat these ingredients well together,  tie them tightly in a thickly 
floured cloth and boil them for three hours and a half, we can recommend this as a remarkably 
light small rich pudding:  it may be served with German, wine, or punch sauce. So this pudding is 
made with a traditional pudding cloth rather than   a basin which would be more commonly used today  because it's A LOT easier, so much can go wrong with a pudding cloth. As is seen by my first 
abysmal attempt.  So feel free to use a basin if you want, there will be no judgement on my part, but even a cloth is better than what would have been used to make puddings in the Middle Ages  which was the stomach of an animal, so yay cloth.  Now what you'll need is: 3 ounces or 85 grams of flour,  3 ounces or 85 grams of bread crumbs,  6 ounces or 170 grams of beef suet. Now beef suet is the protective fat 
around the kidneys and liver of a cow and it's   going to be pretty much impossible for you to 
find if you're living in the United States.    Other countries you're probably going to find it, not in 
the U.S.  But you can go ahead and use either lard   or Crisco because they're going to melt at about 
the same temperature close enough.  Butter actually will work as well, despite the fact that it's going 
to melt at a lower temperature.  6 ounces or 170 grams of stoned raisins. So these are actually the 
'plums' in plum pudding.  Until recently in England plum just meant any dried fruit, so these are 
the plums. They wouldn't have actually had plums   in the plum pudding. So plum pudding, figgy pudding, Christmas pudding, all the same thing.  6 ounces or  170 grams of currants,  4 ounces or 113 grams of 
minced apples,  5 ounces or 142 grams of brown sugar , 2 ounces or 57 grams of candied peel,  one half teaspoon of nutmeg with a little mace mixed in,   a pinch of salt,  3 ounces or 88 milliliters of brandy.  She's not very specific actually on how much to use,  so I used three ounces but you can 
use more or less, we're going to be adding a lot   more later on so it's up to you.  And three eggs.  So the first thing you've got to do is prepare your pudding cloth.  You're going to want something made out of either calico or muslin. Cheesecloth is not going to work for this.  A piece about 3 by 3 feet is going to be more than ample for this size pudding. Boil it for 20 minutes. While that boils get a large bowl and add in all of your pudding ingredients.  ♪ Now bring us some figgy pudding,  now bring us some piggy pudding ♪  Then mix everything well together, and set it 
aside until your cloth is ready.  After 20 minutes of boiling take the cloth out of the water,  and lay it on a flat surface. Now to quote Chef Louis from The Little Mermaid "It's gonna be hot in that big 
silver pot."  So I suggest using gloves and or tongs.   Now Eliza Acton says to just flour the cloth, 
and in theory that should work, but in practice... yeah... :/ Luckily Queen Victoria's own chef Charles 
Francatelli deigning to write for the working classes, says that it should be a well greased 
and floured cloth. And I can tell you it's going to work better.  So with a bit of suet, or lard, or 
butter, grease the cloth and then rub the flour in.  You're not going to over-flour the cloth so don't 
be shy.  Then line a medium bowl with the cloth flour side-up, and forming your pudding mixture 
into a ball place it in the bowl.  Then gather up the cloth around it and give it a tight twist 
trying to leave no room around the pudding.  Then wrap a piece of string or another piece of cloth 
(don't use twine for this) around the twist and tie   it as tight as possible. Then put another pot of 
water on the stove and place a small plate upside   down on the bottom. This will keep the pudding 
from burning.  Then heat the water to a rolling boil.  Once it's boiling, and not before, pick up 
your pudding and give it one last shaping. You're going for a perfect cannonball shape, but 
it's a lot harder than than it looks.   I did not get that. Then set it in the water and cover 
the pot.  Now today it's more common to just steam a pudding, so you'd only need like an inch of 
water and you're kind of good to go and you just   watch it and make sure it doesn't boil away but since we're boiling this pudding the water needs to come up fairly high at least halfway up the pudding.  It's a lot harder but that's the way it's done.  Now that plate that we put on the 
bottom is going to be rattling around as long as   the water is boiling, so as long as you're hearing 
that wonderful rattling then you are good to go,   and don't need to add more boiling water.  Charles Dickens actually mentioned this wonderful sound in A Christmas carol. "...the two young Cratchits hustled 
Tiny Tim, and bore him off into the wash-house,  that he might hear the pudding singing in the copper."  If the singing stops, and actually before the singing stops, you really need to add more water and it 
needs to be boiling water straight from the kettle.   Don't add room temperature water because 
it's going to lower everything and it   it's not good. Make sure the water is boiling.  Now this pudding only boils for three and a half hours, which is nothing compared to the huge 
puddings that might have to boil for eight hours,   but even three and a half hours is plenty of time 
to sneak in a documentary.  Which is exactly what I did as I worried the last time that i was making 
this pudding to see if it turned out all right.  I distracted myself with an excellent documentary 
from today's sponsor: CuriosityStream. Now after a couple documentaries 
or three and a half hours to be precise,  go ahead and remove the pudding from the pot and set it in 
a bowl for a few minutes to let most of the water drain. Then hang it to fully dry.  Now it's supposed 
to age in a cold dry place but I live in LA,  so that's not going to happen.  So I actually 
took the pudding once it dried out of the cloth, and put it into an airtight container and 
stored it in the refrigerator for a few weeks.   And a few weeks is plenty of time to talk about 
the history of Christmas pudding.  It's not going to take a few weeks, I promise. *Puts on History Hat if he had one* Now the origin of plum 
pudding, as is its association with Christmas, is   a little murky and that's because a lot of what we 
know about the traditions of Christmas around   the Middle Ages and the Renaissance actually come from  the Victorians who were famous for just making stuff up,   and even today it's kind of hard to tell 
fact from fiction sometimes. I have been taken in   by those dastardly Victorians on several occasions  but what we do know is that at least by the 16th century   the English were celebrating Christmas 
with copious amounts of alcohol-induced revelry   wassailing from house to house and feasting 
on rich foods such as mince pies. This is when mincemeat was actually still meat. Might make for a 
very good episode actually.  They also ate something called plum porridge.  A proto-plum pudding if 
you will.  But then came the war on Christmas.   The actual war on Christmas.  When in 1644 the Puritan led
English Parliament banned Christmas celebrations   as "recalling the sins of our forefathers, who have turned this Feast,  pretending the memory of Christ into an extreme forgetfulness of him, by giving liberty to carnal and sensual delights..."   Sounds like a nice Christmas to me.  Anyway these killjoys of English history ended up  doubling down a few years later when they decided that all shops had 
to remain open on Christmas day.  There are even stories that town criers were sent out the night before ringing bells and shouting  
 "No Christmas!  No Christmas! No Christmas!"  Now luckily that original 
act was abolished in 1660 when the monarchy was   restored, but it actually took centuries for 
Christmas to get back to the grand holiday that   it once was. But one of the first traditions that 
we do see return to the holiday was the eating of   rich foods specifically plum and figgy pudding.  And in the 17th and 18th centuries England started to   spread itself around the globe, plum puddings were 
a perfect way to celebrate with those people who   might be thousands of miles away because you could 
send them a Christmas pudding in June and when it   finally got there in december it was still good 
to eat.  In an 1887 article in Good Housekeeping,   just after that magazine started, it's been around 
for a while, there's a story about a Colonel Hazard   who went on holiday and he was gone for two years 
during which a plum pudding had been delivered to   his house and it just sat there for two years and 
when he got back he boiled it. Afterwards musing   "...that a good plum pudding, like the wheat found in 
the old Egyptian mummy cases,  would keep all right for a thousand years." Now as plum puddings followed 
soldiers across the sea and around the globe   the pudding came to symbolize the British empire 
itself. Specifically in political cartoons of the day. One famous cartoon called "The Plum Pudding in 
Danger" shows William Pitt and Napoleon Bonaparte   carving up a plum pudding globe. Britain getting 
a noticeably larger slice.  And then plum pudding got its big Christmas break when in 1843, less than 
10 years after England finally made it an official   bank holiday, Charles Dickens forever solidified 
the desserts association with Christmas by giving   us a lovely description of it at the Cratchit 
house.  "Hello! A great deal of steam!  The pudding was out of the copper. A smell like a washing-day! That was the cloth.  A smell like an eating-house and a pastry-cook's next door to each other,  with a laundress's next door to that! That was the pudding! In half a minute Mrs. Cratchit entered - flushed but smiling proudly - with the pudding,  like a speckled cannonball so hard and firm, blazing in half a quarter of ignited brandy cannonball so hard and firm blazing in half of half-a-quartern of ignited brandy,   and bedight with Christmas holly stuck into the top." I just love 
that excerpt but I do think it's weird to describe   the smell as like a laundress. I mean I would never 
want a cake that was considered Downy fresh   but you know it's the 19th century, I guess.  Also, I have decided to bring back the word bedight which means   adorned. So next time you need to use the word 
adorned, which is often i'm sure, make sure to use   the word bedight. Let's bring it back.  Now it was soon after A Christmas Carol was published that   we start to see a lot of the modern traditions 
around the Christmas pudding starting to crop u.   Some people think that it should be made with 13 
ingredients to symbolize Jesus and the 12 apostles,   and some think that it should have coins and other 
choking hazards cooked inside  as little prizes for good luck,  but the most famous tradition is that 
it needs to be made on the last Sunday before   advent called Stir-up Sunday because in the Book 
of Common Prayer the collect of the day says   "Stir up we beseech thee o Lord, the wills of thy 
faithful people."  Then everyone goes home and takes a turn stirring the Christmas pudding clockwise,  which come to think of it I don't think I did so that's not good. :x And the reason for making 
it so far in advance is because supposedly after   a month of aging the flavors really come to life. 
Even Charles Dickens himself said  "...puddings will keep good for several months, and only require 
to be boiled for an hour at the time of serving."   And that's why I actually made my Christmas 
pudding way back in October so that today   it can have aged for about a month.  And now it's 
time to reboil our pudding.  So lets do it.  So on Christmas day, or filming day in my case, you just 
go ahead and re-wrap that pudding and basically do   exactly what you did. Either boil or you can 
steam it for about an hour just to you know   get it nice and warm again. wine   Now Eliza Acton says 
that you can serve this with either a German, wine,  or punch sauce. You don't have to but you can and 
I actually ended up making the punch sauce that is   in the book so I have put that recipe it's fairly 
easy put that recipe down in the description   if you want to make it. But you could also use 
like a nice custard it's a lot prettier because   sauces in her book they're very 
liquidy because they're extremely, extremely alcoholic. Aand speaking of alcoholic that seems 
to be a hallmark of the Christmas pudding. Our   recipe of course had brandy in it. Other recipes 
have you soak the fruit in brandy before putting   them into the mixture and others have you pour 
brandy over it every few days while it's aging   but all of them basically say afterward 
you put a little brandy on or around it   that's the tradition and then you light it 
on fire which brings us to some more history   (It's back!) So there was a game associated with the brandy 
called snapdragon or flap dragon as Shakespeare   called it, and Samuel Johnson defines it thus   "A play in which they catch raisins out of a burning brandy,  and extinguishing them by closing the 
mouth, eat them."  And in the 1709 magazine Tattler, Richard Steel says   "The wantonness of the 
thing was to see each other look like a demon,   as we burnt ourselves, and snatched out the fruit."  So at first it was just a bowl of brandy but then   as soon as puddings became a thing they started 
making a little moat of brandy around the pudding   and took them out of there and by the 19th century 
there was actually a little song associated with the game.  "With his blue and lapping tongue 
Many of you will be stung  Snip! Snap! Dragon!  For he snaps at all that comes 
snatching at his feast of plums, Snip! Snap! Dragon!  There are actually a bunch more verses so you can look them up if you want.  Also in one of my favorite books ever "Through the Looking Glass and What Alice Found There" by Lewis Carroll 
there's a creature called the snapdragon fly.    "It's body is made of plum pudding, its wings of holly 
leaves and its head is a raisin burning in brandy."  Crazy dangerous holiday game. I do not suggest 
you do it especially when you learn that this   was actually a children's game. Oh those crazy Brits.  Now let's light this thing on fire shall we? And here's our Christmas pudding.  Now I put a 
little sprig of fake holly in there.  I wouldn't use real holly, because it is poisonous. Granted
you're not going to probably be eating it but you   know what why why risk it so use use fake holly 
if you need to.  Also if you're going to light this on fire please remove the holly.  I tried it first 
using the punch sauce that i made but it couldn't light  so I ended up using just plain brandy and 
voila, gorgeous.  Now kids do not try this at home  and if you are going to do it make sure you 
have like a pot or something that you can   snuff it out with otherwise it will end up like 
burning the uh the fruit and it doesn't smell good... because we let it burn too long.  So I'm 
going to slice myself off a piece here.   I think a little bit of liquid might have gotten 
in there because it should hold together a little   bit more firm. Mine kind of crumbled but still 
looks pretty good so let's add a bit of this sauce, and give it a try. That's alcoholic. It's really good, it's really raisiny.  I mean 
i guess that's why it's called plum pudding   because that is the flavor that you're getting. If 
you don't like raisins you're not gonna like this.   If you don't like brandy you're not gonna like 
this, but if you like raisins and brandy you're   gonna like this. It's just so much fun! The texture 
is really nice. It's not stodgy or anything but   it's not dry it's not too moist. It's really 
kind of perfect, yeah. It's a lot of work though and   a lot of calories so there's actually a wonderful 
saying from the 19th century that says  "Fair Girl be warned when Christmas comes,  reject that pudding stuffed with plums." But I for one am not going to reject this pudding. In fact i'm going to eat 
the rest of this piece right now.  So make sure to follow me on Instagram @ tastinghistorywithmaxmiller  and I will see you next time  on Tasting History. 