Adobe Flash is a multimedia technology that 
powered some of the most iconic websites in   the internet’s early days like Newgrounds 
and Homestarrunner. It allowed content to   be viewable whether you were on Mac, PC, or 
Linux, and it became so popular that almost   every website had some form of Flash technology. 
But today, the internet looks a lot different.   Flash has gone extinct, and Apple had a lot 
to do with its demise. So in this video,   I’m going to explain the history of Flash, 
and how Apple accelerated its demise.   This is Greg with Apple Explained, and I want 
to thank Squarespace for sponsoring this video.   If you’d like to help decide which 
topics I cover, make sure you’re   subscribed and voting polls like this one 
will show up in your mobile activity feed. So Flash has a long history, starting in 1993 as a 
piece of software called SmartSketch. Designed as   a graphics editor for the Mac that was optimized 
for pen computing, which was a popular trend at   the time. But the stylus computing hype fizzled 
out after a couple years as the internet became   the next big thing. So SmartSketch was rewritten 
as a web animation tool called FutureSplash,   released in 1995. It allowed web developers 
to add custom animations to their websites,   which was a novel concept at the time. And 
FutureSplash eventually attracted the attention   of a software company called Macromedia in 1996, 
who purchased FutureSplash and shortened its name   to ‘Flash.’ Macromedia was vital in modernizing 
the software and encouraging widespread adoption.   In fact, Flash became so capable that it 
wasn’t only being used for website animations,   but to create entire websites themselves. 
Although there were drawbacks.   Search engines couldn’t read content that 
was hidden inside a Flash website. So search   engine optimization was severely crippled. And 
because the entire website had to be pre-loaded,   Flash sites ended up being much slower than 
HTML. But because of its expansive functionality,   Flash was quickly adopted by web designers 
looking to do more than what HTML and CSS allowed. This Flash uprising gave way to experiences 
never seen before on the Internet.   Websites like Newgrounds and YouTube were 
possible because of flash game, animation,   and video technology. The importance of Flash 
in the internet’s history cannot be understated.   In 2005, Adobe acquired Macromedia and 
became the sole owner of Flash. The   technology had become ubiquitous. Web browsers 
automatically included Flash in their downloads,   and it was the #1 tool of web developers. 
But despite its popularity, Flash still had   problems. And that’s what discouraged Apple from 
including the technology on their mobile devices. You see, the Mac had supported flash just 
like PCs, but when it came to the iPhone,   Apple decided not to support it. And they 
had some good reasons why. Adobe actually   tried to get a mobile version of Flash working 
on the iPhone before its launch, which would   optimize power consumption and patch it security 
flaws, but the product failed to materialize.   This put Apple in a difficult position. They could 
support flash anyway, giving users access to many   of their favorite flash-based websites, but those 
sites would quickly drain the iPhone’s battery   and even crash it’s web browser altogether. So 
to prevent this instability, Apple decided not   to support flash on the iPhone. And Adobe appeared 
to be okay with the decision, at least initially. Users also weren’t too upset 
with the lack of Flash support,   likely because they used apps to access websites 
rather than the Safari browser. But the drama   between Adobe and Apple came to a head with the 
release of iPad. Steve Jobs called the tablet the   most important thing he’d ever done, and based 
on its sales success, he was right. One million   units were sold in just 28 days, compared to the 
iPhone’s 74 days. iPad was actually the fastest   selling electronic device ever. But there was one 
problem analysts and journalists kept bring up:   it’s lack of flash support. And Adobe wanted as 
much attention brought to the issue as possible.   With mobile web browsing on the 
rise, and desktop browsing declining,   the relevance of Flash was being threatened. Apple 
had been focusing their efforts on encouraging   development of HTML5 as not only an alternative 
to Flash, but also an eventual replacement. Alright now Apple didn’t push for Flash 
to be replaced because of some personal   vendetta against Adobe, it was simply because 
HTML5 offered a better browsing experience.   Especially when it came to mobile devices. 
With HTML5, there are no plugins to install,   it doesn’t require as much processing power, 
and it consumes less power. But perhaps the   biggest benefit is that HTML5 is open source. So 
Apple can directly contribute to its development,   without relying on Adobe to fix 
security holes or optimization issues. But Adobe wasn’t going to let Flash go down 
without a fight. They immediately began   criticizing Apple’s devices, saying they 
can’t access “the full web” because 75% of   videos online are in flash. But Apple pushed back, 
asserting that most video content was available in   other formats or as iOS apps. And while that was 
true when it came to the iPhone, many iPad users   browsed the internet with Safari, rather than 
downloading individual apps. This made its lack   of flash support more visible than on iPhone, 
since users would see holes in websites where   flash content should be. Steve Jobs was actually 
asked about this issue directly during the All   Things Digital conference [clip] So while Jobs was 
right in saying lots of flash content was being   updated to HTML5 and therefore become visible on 
iPads, he avoided answering the question of entire   flash-based websites not even being accessible. 
It sounded like a really big flaw in the iPad at   the time, and competitors like Samsung used it to 
their advantage when promoting their own tablets.   While Adobe used it as an opportunity to 
create as much bad press for Apple as possible. They regularly attacked Apple by claiming their 
decision to not support Flash was anti-competitive   and potentially illegal. That Apple was protecting 
the App Store by preventing content from being   delivered through Flash, and that Apple preferred 
closed systems, unlike Flash which is open. But in   reality, the opposite was true. Flash was wholly 
owned by Adobe, who had control over every change   made to the product. While HTML5, the technology 
Apple was encouraging developers to adopt,   was literally open source. Anyone could contribute 
to it, make changes, or add features. Adobe   never filed a lawsuit against Apple, but their 
accusations were strong enough that Steve Jobs   was forced to publicly respond. He wrote a letter 
called “thoughts on Flash” where he thoroughly   outlined why Apple decided not to support the 
product on iOS. He wrote, “Flash was designed   for PCs using mice, not for touch screens using 
fingers. For example, many Flash websites rely on   "rollovers", which pop up menus or other elements 
when the mouse arrow hovers over a specific spot.   Apple's revolutionary multi-touch interface 
doesn't use a mouse, and there is no concept   of a rollover. Most Flash websites will need to 
be rewritten to support touch-based devices. If   developers need to rewrite their Flash websites, 
why not use modern technologies like HTML5, CSS   and JavaScript?” He ended the letter by saying, 
“New open standards created in the mobile era,   such as HTML5, will win on mobile devices (and PCs 
too). Perhaps Adobe should focus more on creating   great HTML5 tools for the future, and less on 
criticizing Apple for leaving the past behind.” And while Jobs managed to predict 
the future with stunning accuracy,   that letter didn’t include all the 
reasons why Apple ditched Flash. Six years later, it was revealed in 
a series of tweets from Bob Burrough,   who used to be a software development manager at 
Apple, that the technological issues with Flash   was only one part of the equation. The other, 
had everything to do with their CEO Shantanu   Narayen. According to Burrough, Apple's stated 
reasons for not supporting Flash were poor UI   and excessive power consumption. However, 
Steve Jobs explained to the team at Apple   that the main reason was that Shantanu 
Narayen would not take his phone calls.   He conceded that fixing bugs in the software 
were mere engineering problems. However,   without an open dialog with Adobe, 
he couldn't count on them to do it. But despite all of the drama surrounding 
the lack of Flash support on iPad,   it didn’t seem to stop customers 
from buying it. The iPad continued   to dominate the tablet market and the 
issue became less and less relevant   as websites started transitioning away from 
Flash, to HTML5. Just as Jobs predicted. Eventually, Adobe faced the 
music and announced in 2017   that they’d stop supporting Flash in 
2020. Which they did on December 31st,   and they blocked Flash content from 
running completely on January 12th, 2021. So that is how Apple helped kill Flash. 
Thanks for watching till the end,   and don’t forget to subscribe to help 
decide which topics I cover in the future. 