('End' and 'Go' game is back!) - 'I am going to eat tomorrow'
- I think you're right 'Go' was the good one in
the first round, right? It was for the second round too (Decided) 
I pick 'End' then! This is an individual
round, so decide 'Go'! Wa... wait a second! (Nervous) (Shaking) (Help Me!)
Let's go! (I will ___ tomorrow)
One, two, three! Go! (Final: 'End'- 4, 'Go'- 5)
(Seoyeon held her sign backwards) ('I will wake up late tomorrow') (If you picked End,
you'll prepare breakfast!) Positivity always wins! One, two, three (Dancing queen) Be positive in life
(I'll go my own way) Chaeyoung, we're having
cereal tomorrow, okay? Life is all about 'Go'! I love cereal (Making a Fuss for Their Breakfast) (Members got up to make breakfast) (Lost)
Do we have any plates? - Bacon - We'll put the bacon and...
(Is this a group monologue?) We have to toast at least 9 slices then? Don't people eat two each? Do we have to toast the bread? - If they want more...
- Let's ask them to help themselves We have this too.
They can eat it raw (LOL) I like that Hey, you know what? They do this at hotels
(Chaeyoung's hotel breakfast) This is like a hotel breakfast Put a knife here, so they
can cut it themselves The knife looks a bit scary This is how they serve it in America - I don't think that's the knife
- (Innocently) It is similar (Gyuri attempts to cook sausage) This is an American style breakfast (Sausage and oil
splashing everywhere) Wait x3 *Screams*
(Jisun is calm) It's fine Nothing happened I don't think I have it in me (The kitchen is calm after the chaos) Jisun, that looks good What do we do now? Stand here Eat
(Tasters vs cooks, perfect roles) Should I cut the banana? (Drawing blank) - We'll just put it like that
- Really? (Tossed) (Confused banana) (Chaeyoung is fighting
with a strawberry jam) You need to have an
apple in the morning... (Pop!) I used all my energy I'm so tired (Plain cream cheese: Stuck) Use a knife Use a knife?
(Got a knife) That looks good
(Excavating) (Success!) (So happy) What? (Seoyeon with high energy is a rarity) She's really happy Isn't this pretty? Yes... It is... Seoyeon... Is this an artwork for you? (LOL) She's doing ceramics
(Cream cheese sculpture by Seoyeon) We're like McD*nald's
standing next to each other (Speaking whatever comes to their minds) Aren't you ketchup
and mustard? Who brought McD*nald's here? (Sausage is ready) Wait! This is our dinner from yesterday If we had spam, then these are
all from last night's dinner (Eat this) (Always takes what others offer) We only have 8 eggs 
One of us can't eat it We can make scrambled eggs (Solved it with scrambled eggs★) (Gyuri bursts into laughter) The four of us together
makes me laugh - The most random four people, huh?
- Yeah Hey, Seoyeon Leave it alone Did somebody bring soap? Leave it alone 
It's pretty (LOL) I don't think I'm meant to be a cook What's that? Scrambled eggs from hell? Gyuri, let's add cheese in it Here?
Should I? Keep it sanitary! 
Sanitize cleanly (?) What am I talking about? It's Korean Something smells good (Members waking up to the smell) I'm making a dish that is only for you I'm hungry (Drip, drip, drip) So odd I thought everyone
can crack eggs Chaeyoung, you're really good at this - The shell went inside...
- It did? So emotionless (We're looking for Seoyeon's emotions...) If you see eggshells, take it out - That's not a shell
- Then what is it? It's my love ♥ (The process was not perfect) (But the results are quite nice) That's a sculpture
that Seoyeon made Whoa. Seoyeon, you're a true artist She gets her inspiration for
songs from cream cheese The cheese makes it taste good (Chaeyoung's cheese toast) Seoyeon, put it in Put... put it in Put it in! I think this will be good, Chaeyoung Chaeyoung is Baek Jong-won's apprentice No, that was Jiheon (Chaeyoung's cheese bread is almost ready)
It looks good It looks good Come down everyone!
(Time to eat!) (Breakfast made with love(?)) (for the perfect morning) Thank you for the food Thank you Great job - It's good!
- I want to try the cheese bread (Yum) What did you put
other than cheese? Cheese - Really?
- I only put cheese Really? (A familiar pose) Let me read your palm No Someone's alarm woke me up I woke up because of your alarm (Whose alarm was it?)
Mine is on vibration Jiheon told me that my
alarm was going off So I told her sorry, but it wasn't mine I heard it from outside
It must have been Jisun's She wouldn't turn it off though No, I turned it off I did It goes off again in
1 min and 30 seconds Right 
Exactly ♪ This is yummy ♪
(Sings when food is good) Aren't we missing someone? (Shocked)
(Counting everyone...) - Everyone is here
- Oh, you're right (My bad) I'm over here (LOL) When you're in school, you eat breakfast Right. You eat breakfast
when you're in school (Chaeyoung is a pro
beauty mukbang YouTuber) I ate a lot of cafeteria food at school That's basically why
I went to school I'd run as soon
as the bell rings Me too! (Gyuri was like Usain Bolt)
I always stared at the clock... Everyone gets ready to bolt out I'd be the type to put
one foot behind me And then I'll run as fast as I can I'd ask about the
menu for the day Has anyone made a book? A book? Did you know? They don't tell you the
menu with a chart these days You get a text - Wow 
- Chills - You didn't know?
- Of course not The menu got printed
when I was in school... It gets printed on a thin
paper-like newspaper Has anyone highlighted
their favorite dish? Me! They serve the best
dishes on Wednesdays Right! (Jiheon is excited to
talk about school) - Did you guys try this dish at school?
- That's enough! It's been a while since
I was in school! I don't remember
(I'm a grown-up now!) (LOL) - Tell us
- What? What is it? Forget it (Pouty Jiheon) (Why did you shut her down!) So cute Tell us, Jiheon We're curious. We're curious
about your school life! Saerom, calm down! I just bit on an eggshell (The eggshell has
chosen Seoyeon!) This is 'End' - I'm sorry
- That's Chaeyoung's heart Chaeyoung cracked the eggs,
but instead of doing this - She did it like this
- Dripping everywhere... (Final round of 'End' & 'Go'!)
My gut says 'End' We started with 'End', so
we shall end with 'End' - Okay. Let's go!
- Go! 'I'll travel standing up' 'I'll travel by car' or 'I'll travel
on foot' or something like that? I think I know what it is!
(Attacking our eardrums) One, two... Ah! Wait! x3 What's the point of trying to guess? Wait. Wait! (Bait) It wouldn't be fun if
we all choose the same, right? (Took the bait) Do you want to?
Should we pick the same thing? One, two, three! 'End'! Oh, wait! Wait!
(Almost betrayed, haha) They don't look happy (...) Show us! Show us! Just like that TV show,
"It's a rectangle" (I will ____ then leave) ('I will stay behind to
clean up then leave') (Members that chose 'End'
will go home right away!) This is nuts Wait, wasn't this a bit
of a psychological move? (Wait, everyone) Wait, wait This is sad 
Wait, this is too sad Who was this round for? It's okay, Chaeyoung
This game was for us! 'End'! I really wanted to help them (Instigating) I, of course, was going to help them But this is a game and
 I have to be fair I'm so happy (Spoke her thoughts out loud) It was nice to get together...
(Ending now?) 'Who is making a noise?' (*Impersonating a character
with an eye patch on) - ... to eat good food...
- 'Who asked her for a closing comment?' We got to barbeque
and play together This was very memorable
and I was happy This really was nice though If I cover here, you
can't see. Right? (LOL) Let's go somewhere abroad next time We've been saying
this for two years, huh? Or let's go to Jeju
Island next time Okay! We've been saying that
for two years too I don't want to go to
Jeju Island anymore Yesterday was so hard (Memories of last night) Tangerine! Tangerine!Tangerine! Where tangerines grow! Isn't this really fascinating though? What I learned from this is...  that you need to pick a
side and stand your ground That's why we woke up
so early this morning I also realized that we have
a really amazing teamwork I just realized that - Right
- Right We could've all picked
different things, but... We could've had one person
who betray the rest... - Right?
- Right I hesitated for a second though I thought that maybe
 I could be the sole winner (LOL) Like us when we got here? Yes But the tasks they had were
not as bad as I thought I agree Not being able to use
our phone was the worst Let's do it again Again! Again! Is there someone who
hasn't lost once? No, everyone lost at least once Right, right It's time to clean up (Jiwon giving orders) (LOL) Clean up now Games are games 
Don't read too much into it We're gong to leave now Great job, everyone We are fromis_9! Channel_9 EfG! (Word marathon) (Listen to the two letters presented and
then connect the rest of the following) (to complete with a single word!) (Ex) Pine/apple, Rasp/berry,
Apple/mango) I'm really good at this x3 (Team Saerom, Seoyeon, Jiheon starts!) Mayo! -nnaise! Oh! I'm drawing a blank! Quick-serv Oh... It starts
with a new word What is 'quick-serv'? (Fail!)
Okay! I get it now - What, what?
- Quick service Oh, quick service 
This is hard (Team Gyuri, Jiwon, Nagyung, go!) Pass -code! Samo! - ed...!
- It's not '-ed' Samoyed! Samoyed! Yed! Yed! I was thinking 'Sam-oh-ship-oh' (3x5=15) 'Sam-oh-ship-oh' Doesn't that count too? Probably?
(Team Hayoung, Jisun, Chaeyoung, go!) Sun! -flower! - National!
- Teams! Olive! Young (LOL) What? What? (Fine. LOL) That works - The more!
- the better! - Hedge!
- hog! (Success!) That was easy That was really easy Olive Young was hilarious I thought she would say Olivia (Answer Together:
Answer three questions) (with the same answers 
If you do, you win a point) (Team Saerom, Seoyeon, Jiheon, go!) (What would you like for
tomorrow's breakfast?) (One, two, three) - Meat! - Fried eggs!
 (Seoyeon: Murmur) (Fail!) (Moving on to the next question!) (What do you order at a coffee shop?) (One, two, three) - Americano! - Americano!
- Iced Americano - Whoa. Really?
- She said Iced Americano! (Success!) I'm willing to bet meat on this (What fruit comes to
your mind in summer?) (One, two, three) - Watermelon! - Watermelon!
(Seoyeon: Murmur) (Fail!) (Team 1 got 1 point!) (Team Gyuri, Jiwon, Nagyung, go!) (Who is most suited for the
word 'Girl crush' in the team?) (One, two, three) Jang Gyuri!
(Off by a beat) What? What? Jang Gyuri! Jang Gyuri! We said Jang Gyuri! If you show us what 'Girl crush' is,
then you get the point Fine! If she can show it to us,
then we'll give it to them One two, three (Gyuri is the best)
Gosh! She is too attractive! So attractive!
(Electrocuted) So attractive! (What's the first thing
you do when you wake up?) (One, two, three) (Fail!)
Why, why! Let's move on Fine x2 (Who takes the best selfie?) Wait! One, two, three! (Just do it) Jang Gyuri!!! (LOL) This is not true x2 This is how Gyuri
takes her selfies Jang Gyuri is the answer
to everything (So funny) (Team Gyuri, Jiwon, Nagyung got 1 point!) We said we'll say 'meat' for
anything food-related... Let's go!
(Let's move on) (Who likes riding roller coasters?) (One, two, three!) Jisun! Wait! Chaeyoung signaled them Ding-ding-ding!
(Fail!) (What kind of pet do you want
to have in the apartment?) (One, two, three!) A puppy! (What's the perfect dessert
after eating pork belly?) (One, two, three!) Chicken! (Chicken???) Wow. That's awesome Hey! What do you mean? - The answer is cold noodles!
- No! She said chicken,
why is she complaining to me? - You should've said cold noodles
- You're good (Preview for next week)
This is fun This is what tomato
should taste like! (Burnt out so quickly) What is wrong with our tomatoes! I'm sweating We're leaving now (This time, it's tomatoes) (What is this?)
What is that? Channel_9 EfG! 