"Haven't you heard? I'm the crazy bitch around here." Whoever said girls are made of
Sugar and spice and everything nice Didn't go to school
with a Blair Waldorf A Cheryl Blossom,
a Heather Chandler, or a Regina George. These mean girls rule their high schools
with an iron fist "Shoo, bitches." And if we break down the mean girl
character type in movies and TV, we see some recurring elements… She’s confident and ambitious, but she takes these positive qualities
to a dark extreme. “l admire you so much.” “And why wouldn't you?” She’s often highly intelligent
and cunning, with a canny understanding
of how to manipulate people for personal entertainment. “You're just a toy, Sebastian. A little toy I like to play with." She’s glamorous and charismatic, "Regina's like the barbie doll
I never had. I'd never seen anybody
so glamorous." even to those who want to hate her. "The weird thing about hanging out
with Regina was that I could hate her, and at the same time,
I still wanted her to like me." She’s driven by rage,
which comes from her realistic, yet cynical understanding of the world. “Heather told me
she teaches people real life. She said, 'Real life sucks losers dry.'" The status quo of the social hierarchy
actually makes her miserable -- but instead of overturning it,
she chooses to perpetuate the toxic cycle,
because at least she’s on top. So the Mean Girl is
the high school version of the cautionary tale
that power corrupts. “I made you and I'm God. That's all you need to know." Here’s our Take
on the mean girl onscreen: what makes her tick,
what she represents… and why she ultimately has to fall. "You're an awful person." "Maybe. But I'm rich and I'm pretty, so, it doesn't really matter.” streaming anytime, anywhere. The core of the mean girl’s identity
is rage. Mean Girls star Rachel McAdams described
Regina George as “a really angry kid who had
no boundaries or guidance,” and said director Mark Waters told her
to listen to Courtney Love’s music and watch Alec Baldwin
in Glengarry Glen Ross for inspiration. “Because you drove a Hyundai
to get here tonight. I drove an $80,000 BMW. THAT'S my name.” Early examples of the mean girl
already embody a raw anger or hatred towards the protagonist
that’s hard to immediately understand. Here’s beautiful, wealthy, popular Chris
in Carrie talking about the awkward, painfully shy classmate who’s never
done anything to her: “I hate Carrie White.” “Who?” And look at the intensity
of the hatred that beautiful, wealthy popular girl Benny
has toward Molly Ringwald’s Andie: “Oh my god. Am I having a nightmare?” These mean girls of the 70s and 80s
planted this mystery of why the girl-who-has-everything
so fiercely despises the outcast-who-has-less
-- a pattern we’d see continue in later examples. In 1988, Heathers gave us
a more complex and alarming look at the pathological society that drove
the Queen Bee to be so mean. “It's just like they're people
I work with and our job is being popular and shit.” But the trope really took off
and became a fixture in 90s and early 2000s movies
-- and this timing is no coincidence. In the early 90s,
Kaj Björkqvist’s research shed new light on female aggression. According to Björkqvist, “Girls can better understand
how other girls feel so, they know better
how to harm them.” In 1995, Nicki R. Crick
and Jennifer K. Grotpeter coined the term “relational aggression”
to describe how -- while boys tend to be overtly aggressive through
physical violence or threats – girls are more likely to express
aggression by weaponizing relationships. Relational aggression comes out
in behaviors like exclusion and spreading rumors or lies. “I want you to raise your hand
if you have ever had a girl say something bad about you
behind your back.” Early 2000s bestsellers
like Odd Girl Out and Queen Bees and Wannabes
-- which inspired Mean Girls – further spotlighted
the subject of female bullying. As young women grow up,
their angry, aggressive, and competitive impulses become
less socially acceptable – so, they’re forced to express
these emotions in under the table ways. “The aggression might be increasing
to the extent that we are putting more pressure on girls to achieve
in the same ways that boys achieve but again, not giving them
the license to engage in the kinds of competitiveness
and aggressions that they need to go the distance.” The mean girls we see onscreen
are often smiling assassins – their machinations are more sinister
because they’re hidden under a cover of surface niceness. “I love your skirt. Where did you get it?” “That is the ugliest f-ing skirt
I've ever seen.” So, part of the problem is that
girls aren’t given license to deal with conflict honestly,
out in the open. “I knew how this would be
settled in the animal world. But this was Girl World.” And the lack of communication leads
to a toxic build-up of resentment. That’s why Mean Girls’ Ms. Norbury
doesn’t tell the girls to stop feeling angry;
she urges them to “express your anger in a healthy way.” There’s also an even more
disturbing reason girls resort to relational aggression:
they’re bored. We don’t have to look any further
than Mean Girls’ burn book to see what this looks like. “That book was written by
a bunch of stupid girls who make up rumors because they're
bored with their own lame lives.” Girls bullying each other
for entertainment is very sad, and it points to a culture that’s
not offering young women constructive outlets
for their self-expression. “I use my grand IQ to decide
what color gloss to wear and how to hit three keggers
before curfew.” What’s so interesting
about the mean girl is that she’s full of potential. Her male equivalent is the jock bully who preys on nerds –
but the jock is usually portrayed as dumb and boorish,
while the mean girl is strikingly bright and perceptive. She can read the people
around her like a book. “Your hair looks so sexy pushed back. Cady, will you please tell him his hair looks sexy pushed back?” Even if she’s a dark figure,
she embodies many empowering qualities that teen girls should aspire towards:
fierce ambition, determination, and belief in herself. "Power isn't just my mission,
it's my mantra." We could imagine
a very different version of her story where the mean girl gets to channel
her talents into a worthwhile pursuit. “And her physical therapist taught her
to channel all her rage into sports.” Looking at all this together,
it becomes clear that this character’s meanness is really a coping mechanism. The sympathetic take on these frustrated
young women is that they’re thwarted by a suffocating system
that doesn’t expect them to be more than vapid sex symbols or allow
them to embrace their full mental power. The mean girl is under no illusions
about how the real world works. “Life’s a bitch, then you die.” She may be beautiful and rich,
but the true reason the Queen Bee rises to the top in the first place is her
cold, cynical understanding of the system. She gets that public opinion is everything. “Everyone loves me,
and I intend to keep it that way.” So, she skillfully cultivates an image
that makes her seem god-like. In Jawbreaker, Courtney’s rule
about not eating in public suggests she doesn’t even want to be seen as human. “But the mere act of eating invokes
thoughts of digestion, flatulation, defecation, even, shall we say,
complexion defection.” Like a monarch, the Queen Bee builds
a larger culture around herself to keep her subjects in line
and worshipping at her alter. “Because being with The Plastics was
like being famous. People looked at you all the time,
and everybody just knew stuff about you.” She has a posse of enforcers,
which often has its own group name and a strict code of laws
that must be obeyed. “And Girl World had a lot of rules. ‘You can't wear a tank top
two days in a row, and you can only wear your hair
in a ponytail once a week.’” Her hyper-vigilance in maintaining
her reputation reveals that, while the student body sees
her as untouchable, she knows how tenuous
her position really is. “But popularity can be fleeting.” There can be many different reasons
for the mean girl’s pessimistic outlook. “My boyfriend compulsively
cheats on me. All of my friends work for me. My parents didn't even call me on my birthday because they were too busy
hosting a fundraiser for Jeb Bush.” There’s the claustrophobia of being
a teenage girl in a sexist, unfair world – and knowing you have so much more
potential than you can realize. “God forbid I exude
confidence and enjoy sex. Do you think I relish the fact that I must act like Mary Sunshine 24-7
so I can be considered a lady.” There may be great suffering
in the character’s backstory – on Riverdale, Cheryl Blossom’s hostility
is really an expression of her pain. “Everyone thinks
I'm this loveless monster, but it isn't true. I loved someone who loved me. And my mother destroyed it.” But most troublingly,
the mean girl’s worldview represents a broader societal outlook. Usually,
this character has inherited a corrupt value system from
the privileged adults in her life. “You will never be more beautiful or
thin or happy than you are right now.” So essentially, this young woman
embodies the elitism and superficiality of the most powerful people
in our world. “Some people are simply
better than others.” In Pretty in Pink,
the only real reason we’re given for Benny’s problem
with Andy is that she views this working-class girl
as “less than.” “Where’d you get your clothes? Five and dime store?” But this is learned behavior –
reflecting how the world at large defines Andie and her peers
by how much money they have "I'm getting a better
education than I deserve. I'm lucky. I’m fortunate the good people
of this community allow me to attend this school.” So, the real culprit is a messed up
society that teaches impressionable young adults to value
beauty, wealth, and fame over inner virtues like kindness. “You were a good person, Fern.” “A lot of good that did me.” Ultimately, the mean girl is just
ahead of the curve – she embodies the cutthroat attitude
and materialist standards we expect from power players in the adult world,
where there are no teachers trying to help everyone get along. All this makes the Mean Girl so often
the antagonist or villain of her story. Meanwhile, the protagonist is typically
a rebel who tries to bring down a wrong society. “Why is everybody stressing
over this thing? I mean, it's just plastic. Could really just... share it.” Since the Mean Girl is the equivalent
of a Queen or aristocrat, she doesn’t have any incentive
to overturn the system that keeps her in power. She chooses to succeed within it – thereby protecting her popularity. Yet the irony is that she actively fights to preserve
a status quo that makes her suffer. “You put on a good front,
but you're miserable. Don't you think any of that has
anything to do with the fact that you've created an atmosphere based
solely on negativity and raw ambition?” In Heathers, Heather Chandler acts like
she’s helped Veronica by making her part of the in-crowd and
Veronica should be grateful, “You were nothing before you met me.” even though Heather’s own social
success clearly doesn’t make her happy. At the Remington party,
Heather’s college boyfriend pushes her to do more than she’s comfortable with: “Shouldn't we get back to the party?” “We will. It's just you're so hot tonight. I can't control myself.” But when Veronica resists the guy
who’s trying to pressure her in the same way,
Heather is outraged. “What's your damage? Brad says
you're being a real cooze.” Veronica’s refusal to conform bothers
Heather so much because she lacks this spark to be an individual. There’s a deeper symbolism
in the term queen bee. Bee colonies are divided into castes,
much like a high school hierarchy. Without the Queen,
the bee colony can’t survive, so it relies on her to keep
the whole structure alive. But the mean girl is actually
at the mercy of her colony. Claire Gillespie writes,
“While the queen bee is pivotal to everything that happens
inside the hive, she is not, contrary to popular belief,
in control of the colony. In fact, the thousands
of worker bees control the queen.” All this brings us to the answer
to that mystery we raised of why the mean girl hates
the misfit with such intensity. She fears the alternative outcast
as a threat to the system she’s invested in maintaining. But even more than that, she envies that girl for her freedom
and her willingness to rebel. Because while the kingdom
the mean girl reigns over leaves her deeply dissatisfied,
she can’t conceive of life outside it. “And I realize now that none
of this matters to me. But it does to you. It's your dream.” This gives us more insight into what
drives even the one-dimensional Benny in Pretty in Pink. She puts Andie down
because her clothes aren’t expensive, but this outfit expresses a quirky,
charming style that stands out. On some level, Benny probably wishes
she had Andie’s individuality, which, significantly,
has attracted the attention of Benny’s rich boyfriend, Steff: “You know, I've been out with a
lot of girls at this school. I don’t see what makes
you so different.” “I have some taste.” More often than not, the onscreen
mean girl isn’t redeemed in the end. (Even if she’s humanized,
it’s within limits.) Instead, the main event is her being
overthrown or exposed as the evil person she is, as her oppressed population
unites against her. In Heathers,
after Heather Chandler dies, everyone jumps to believing she was
more than a one-dimensional dictator: “I thought she was your
usual airhead bitch. Guess I was wrong. We all were.” But the movie’s point is that
they weren’t wrong. And the takeaway of many of these
movies is that the mean girl is rotten to the core. “You're a bad person
with an ugly heart… and we don't give a
flying [BLEEP] what you think.” Her aspirations often don’t extend
far beyond becoming prom queen. (Or if they do,
her goal is extremely superficial.) “I'm what's known as pre-famous. My life is an audition for reality TV. So, yeah, um, I need
to chronicle everything.” In movies, where we see
the character as an adult, she’s fixated on her past glory days –
perpetuating the narrative that those who are popular
in high school peak early and go downhill from there…
unlike high school losers and nerds, who will surely go on to great things. “Mia, you're such a freak.” “Yeah, I am, but someday I just might grow out of that. But you –
you will never stop being a jerk.” So, we’re encouraged to feel a sense
of superiority over the mean girl. Yet, it feels wrong to derive pleasure
from the Mean Girl’s downfall. First, as we’ve discussed,
she usually embodies strong, powerful traits that are generally
rewarded by our society – so why wouldn’t she be
destined for big things? In High School Musical, Sharpay is
ruthless as she tries to maintain control over the school musical: “We need to save our show from people
who don't know the difference between a Tony Award and Tony Hawk.” She’s acting the way any highly
competitive person would if their ambition were threatened. And this kind of behavior generally
yields success in the adult world. If we’re not the cool, rich,
beautiful leader, it’s tempting to console ourselves that we must
be better people, and she’ll get her comeuppance. But vilifying the mean girl through this black-and-white moral lens
is missing the point. Because, to some degree, there’s a mean girl
in all of us, waiting to come out. “There's good and bad to everybody. Right? Regina she’s just... she's just more up-front about it.” It only takes one sip of the Kool-Aid
to cross over to the dark side. "Why are you such a megabitch?" "Because I can be.” In Mean Girls, as Cady replaces Regina,
she finds herself effortlessly transforming into a master manipulatrix: “I learned how to control
everyone around me.” Even Janis, who sees herself
as Regina’s victim, is really her oppressor’s equal in scheming and cruelty. “I just think that it would be,
like, a fun little experiment if you were to hang out with them and
then tell us everything that they say.” The movie’s writer Tina Fey has said
that in high school, she was a mean girl and
she described her behavior as “a coping mechanism”
for feeling “less than.” This is something Fey also
explored in 30 Rock, where Liz Lemon is shocked to discover
that in high school she was not a victim but a victimizer. “What are you talking about? I was a nerd.” “You were a bully! We were all afraid of you!” Most of us don’t fit neatly into
the high school character types we see onscreen – it’s possible to be
both unpopular and cruel, or cool and smart. “We didn't party because we wanted to
focus on school and get into good colleges.” “But the irresponsible people who partied
also got into those colleges. They did both.” To reduce your peers (or yourself) to
just one thing does a disservice to everyone. And it distracts from the more
important takeaway: It’s the world that’s mean –
this girl’s just doing a better job of living in it. “I have an army to build, a school
to take over and girls to blackmail.” Hey, guys! 