SEI's Self SEI - Log  Wowwww we arrived in the U.S!!! We are going right away to the hotel from the airport :) anyways, the sky again is.....wow.... We dropped our luggage in the hotel and came out right away to eat brunch! :) woww so many Elly: Wow this is awesome look at this Cheesecake! (cheesy pronunciation) Lucy: Pumpkin pie X2 (Excited) The desserts that we picked :) Starting to eat The dessert that I chose was so hard to cut Yum Yum yum yum eating with hot Americano Manager: I thought you were working out all of a sudden XD It didn't taste special but it was still delicious :) looking at the dishes that just came out while standing... Spotted the target With the dish and the fork!!! Heading! Towards! the target Teeth!? Came back to the hotel after having brunch time~~~ Here am~ ah, what do I mean by here am(XD) This is America? TEXAS wow, it's so awesome I still can't believe that this is America Gosh~ The hotel had great park view :) Yay~ I'm not sharing the room with someone today Woahh gogugogoggugu~#$%^$#^5 Just so excited XD Doyeon and I came out for a while to look around the park before going to the concert hall, after taking a rest There are only videos with me being excited as I look back XD This is Yofodofo!? What Doyeon?XD yeah the park here The park near here... Sun~light the sun~ I want to avoid it~ XD Doyeon looks excited too Oh mud The ground was really soggy since it rained before the day we arrived Let me take a photo of you, look here 1,2,3 My hand instinctively headed down to take the photo XD (But why does it seem it headed down after she took the photo...) Bowowowow~(humming since I'm still excited) Bowowwow!!!! XD Excited Doyeon's noises River!!!! What river was this? The venue that I only watched through movies..... It's relaxing only by looking at the river and the sky :) I'll enjoy all of the America for 2 days! SEI's way of enjoying America: 1. Filming of herself and playing! Isn't the cloud movement so pretty~? We prepared for the show right away since we had to perform the day we arrived We're now ........... what? (Suddenly forgot what I was going to say XD) 8 minutes before the show!!!! hehe! (nervous) (natural link with self effect) yayy! (excited) I'm really nervous since it's our first time performing in the U.S. Let's get it! Lua and Sooyeon with their final check Got punched while trying to film XD Finally the entrance!! Picky picky would be the first perfomance in America I was so surprised because I didn't expect so many fans and loud cheerings The energy from the cheerings made me enjoy the stage :) Can you hear it!? :( Fanchants :( It's so moving :( We finished 'Picky Picky' full of joy thanks to the fans Second stage Crush! Yesss perfect fanchant with Crush too~ It was so surprising that people were singing our song from the beginning to the end This would be Neverland! Personally, Neverland would be the most memorable and moving stage It is much prettier looking at the waving hands up on the stage :) We finished more performances including Neverland Saying good bye time I didn't want to head back :( Thank you for all of the fans who gave me an unforgettable memory All finished! We changed our outfits and are ready to head back Our Texas performance is finally done!! Hehhhh wahhhhh There were much more Texas Ki-Lings than we expected Yeah there were lots of Ki-Lings holding our slogan There were people with placards For me, Picky Picky I really loved people all singing along Picky Picky Me too, that's why I took out the in-ear monitor in the middle To listen to that I must have really loved it, since we talked a lot more about the stage :) Anyways, Texas Ki-Lings really welcomed us and wants to see us again so we should come again~ obviously~ no it's not obvious XD We SHOULD come back Please call us more Texas~ We're heading to eat Shabu-Shabu now~x2 You know that Vlog stuff You have to film while we are going Vlog expert Elly XD Excited Lua's voice apporaching Appeared What is.........(Elly can't go on) (Sexy) head banging all of a suuden And she vanishes / ohh (still can't adjust to excited Lua XD) Cut cut cut cut LOL XD Going!!! Tada! Of course it's getting-together meal after the performance! XD We are here to have dinner, Shabu-Shabu Sauce from this self-bar and you take the ingredients and vegetables from here!! We were starving since we didn't have dinner before the performance :) (Self BGM this time hehe) tadadada~ 1 person 1 pot! You can order more meat when there's only a small amount left :) (Full) Leggo You put~ the vegetables Mushroom mushroom! (Excited) It was too early to put vegetables... (Firm lips) I kept on stuffing since I was hungry, even though it was not even boiling XD Stop putting it!!! Stop!!! (Something is weird) It's.... it's not boiling yet... XD..... I put all of the ingredients when it was not even boiling...so... But I put all of these not knowing what the problem is... Stirring the pot and tasting the sauce since I'm hungry It takes so much time for this to boil XD Keeps on saying that it takes a long time XD Glance Quickly scanning Lua's plate and stealing her kimchi without telling her hehehehehe XD Rina's pot starts to boil first Inside of me: When will mine boil..... good for her..... Stirring again At last Starting to say the magic words (Touching and touching) Elly: I want to increase the temperature me too me too(sympathizing) I'm pushing the button LOLOLOL XD We can't increase the temperature more but I'm pushing the button since we want to start eating XD Oh your's is boll(?)ing too You should put your ingredients too (Sad) Waiting forever Rina: Ah this is it (Eating happily) Did I put too much of it? Doyeon: No I also did too Is yours boiling?? It is (envying) Other members' pots are boiling but why not mineeeee Starting to wander around tired of waiting.... Placing the bottle forgetting about the camera XD Ah it's boiling, boiling!!!! bubbling~ Okay~ Come up~ come up~ Rina: wow~ this is so good Me too....Rina... I want to eat it too..... (small sound of sighing) Till when do I have to wait, I really want to eat. Finally!!! The glory first bite after waiting so long Dipping a bit of a sauce~ Bon appetit~ (Happy) Whoo Whoo Whoo Whoo Whoo Whoo Wahhhh Num num I'm really enjoying it Mmm~ (satisfied) I was eating well (sprints the middle of her forehead) (making a fuss) But it was so hot when I tried to swallow it XD (normal all of a sudden) Focusing back on eating after saying it's too hot XD  You put a bunch of meat and you wait for 10 seconds~ Tada hurry to my mouth Wahhhh Mmm~ (feat. middle of the forehead satisfied) Eating on and on from now since it started to boil and boil :) Bigger bite this time~ Eating and eating again with sauce and putting more vegetables (Hesitates) 'ah it's hot' But nothing can stop me!!!! Shutting my eyes tight and safely to my mouth~ goal!!! Hehe me accomplishing this difficult task Storm. of. Muk. Bang. (XD) It's really quiet since the food is all ready 