In a major gaffe, President Obama
forgets to dumb it down for the American populace. A burrito is eaten like someone
in the room isn't crying. And the US will give
a limestone-based economy a shot starting Monday,
with officials saying: "It sounds weird,
but you never know." Please put in your eye drops and swallow the three
green capsules now, it's The Onion
Week In Review. According to a study
published Monday in the New England Journal
of Medicine, getting smacked
right in the mouth with a Goddamn tree branch
really sucks, but after a minute
you're basically fine. The comprehensive two year
medical trial which observed more than 400
unsuspecting volunteers receiving a full on smack
right to the mouth with a stupid, Goddamn
tree branch found conclusively that regardless
of age, gender or ethnicity, getting hit in the mouth
with a tree branch really fucking sucked
for a good minute or two, but then you're more or less
okay. It really sucked a lot
to get hit in the mouth with a Goddamn tree branch. I thought I was bleeding,
going to need stitches or something, but after a few minutes
it was pretty much okay. If you live in the Boston area
and would like to volunteer for a study related
to the effects of getting dinged
right in the balls with a Goddamn dirt clod and whether it makes
you feel like you're going
to puke everywhere until you sit down
for a minute and take some deep breaths, please contact Dr. Marks at
PMarks@bostonuniversity.edu. This week Agriculture Secretary
Tom Vilsack continued his good will tour to improve US relations
with foreign produce by attending a meeting
Thursday with a Slovenian
head of cabbage. Closed door talks
with the leafy vegetable addressed the lack
of arable land in Slovenia and came on the heels
of Vilsack's weekend summit with Polish green beans, a state dinner with
a British asparagus Monday and last week's four-day retreat at the home 
of an Italian basil leaf. It's no secret Secretary Vilsack
and the cabbage have had their disagreements
 on key issues in the past, but both share
a pragmatic approach  that makes it possible for them
to find common ground. In local news, 23-year-old
shitty graffiti artist Adam Zane has captured the heart of 19-year-old, college sophomore
Jessica Tisselo. Zane, who goes by
the graffiti handle Slice met Tisselo last summer at an annoyingly self-aware
dive bar where the talentless artist
caught Tisselo's eye with his clichéd sleeve tattoos
of trite Japanese imagery and the fact that he was wearing
a winter hat indoors in the middle of June. His art is really
just the absolute worst. I think we're going
to get married someday. And now for
This Week In Tech An excited groom
sends text messages to his buddies during
his bride's vows. And a collection of VHS tapes
are held on to for one more year. In other news, a burglar
makes sure to crack the glass on a family portrait
before leaving. There's nothing
in the employee handbook about groping dead coworkers,
an employee says. And a report finds  that nobody's heard
from David Blaine in while so somebody should probably
check to see if he died in one of those things. Naught but a mere two minutes
and thirty seconds have passed yet we feel as though we've
known you a thousand lifetimes. For more visit
theonion.com/newsbeat 