From what would happen if dinosaurs still
existed, to why cats have nine lives, we answer some of your most burning questions about
life. - What’s going on, folks? It’s me, Pringle the One and I’m going
to be reading out the questions and answers. - *
- Hello there, puny mortals, you may call me Paprika. - Eww… 10. BossMajor 345 What would happen to the world
if all humans disappeared? - Oh, if I could just snap my fingers and
make them all disappear, could you imagine? There would be no one to stop my fun! The world would be my playground! - *
- Aww… but humans aren’t so bad, right? - *
- Ahahahaha! If humans suddenly vanished, their creations
would begin to break down. Power stations, oil refineries and other industrial
plants would malfunction, causing great destruction. After several decades nature would overtake
cities, and a few centuries later many large buildings will have partially or fully collapsed. The good news is that many stone or bronze
structures will survive for many thousands of years. 9. Chatika Why are some people right handed and
others left handed? - Left handed people are tainted. I do my best to make things hard for them,
like stealing all their left hand gloves! The look on their faces! “Oi, where’s me left glove at?” they
say. Priceless. - Pringle, you have any idea where every single
one of my left gloves went? - *
- No idea. Oh – here’s one! - *
- Huh. That’s weird. - *
- Very interesting. - Quick question: is there some kind of glove
goblin on my back? - Hmm. I think so. The reason why some people are left handed
is an ongoing debate among scientists. With theories ranging from behaviour that
is learned from your environment to genetics. One theory suggest that the genes responsible
for the development of physical asymmetry could cause some people to favour using their
left hand over their right. 8. Pokelover5 Could a non-carbon based lifeform
ever exist? - *
- I don’t know what he’s made of, maybe cheese? Or twinkies? Are you filled with cream, space boy? - No - actually I can change what I’m made
of whenever I - - * As far as we currently know Carbon is the
only element that life can be based on. This is due to Carbon being able to form four
bonds with other atoms. Occasionally, some scientists have suggested
that life could be based on Silicon, the element just below Carbon on the periodic table as
it too can form four bonds. This is however, just a theory and as far
as we have observed, life can only be based on Carbon. 7. How do you throw away a garbage can? - What!? Why would you get rid of those amazing things? They’re perfect for sleeping inside, people
always leave leftover food in them – they’re like portable homes! - Kinda stinky though. - No, YOU’RE stinky! - At least let me empty this full one, c’mon-
- Don’t touch Victor! He looks after me and I love him. - That’s a trash bin, you crazy cat. - *hisses crazily at Pringle and stabs him
with a fork repeatedly* There are actually a few ways to throw out
a garbage can. One way is to call your local council and
ask them to come pick it up, you can also put your garbage can upside down and that
indicates you want to dispose of it, but that might not always work. The best way is to cut your bin into pieces
and put it into ANOTHER bin. 6. He_Needs_Milk What would happen to humans
if dinosaurs still existed? - New servitors to ride on! Imagine the carnage a T-Rex could unleash! - *
- Ma’am, please pull over to the side of the road. - *
- Please stop the T-Rex, ma’am! If Dinosaurs existed today, humans would probably
be fine for the most part. It would be the Dinosaurs that would face
problems. Earth’s atmosphere, climate, flora and fauna
has changed a lot in the last 66 million years; Oxygen levels have fluctuated, temperatures
have cooled and even the winds are stronger. Now I don’t mean to be rude here - but some
of these boys were big - and I mean really big - the vegetation they needed to eat and
the habitats they lived in just don’t exist anymore. 5. iiShatter Why is blue the color for boys and
pink the color for girls? - Pink!? Red is the colour for boys and girls! We’re filled with red! Like big fat tomatoes! - Hmm… Hey Priiiiiiiiingle, can you turn yourself
into a tomato for me? - Of course, that’s easy! - *
- You see? - Hey - where did you go? - *
- BAAAAAAMMMM! Hahaha! I squashed him. - *
- This job’s weird man. Some say that the concept of blue being for
boys and pink being for girls was a result of marketing campaigns by clothing companies. However, there is evidence that suggests it
could be much deeper. Studies have found that women are better at
differentiating shades of colour and have a sensitivity to the colour red, pink being
a shade lighter than red. The gene responsible for this is in direct
relation to the X chromosome, of which women have two, compared to men who have one X and
one Y chromosome. 4. Alex 06 How do worms reproduce? - You just chop them in half and they grow. Simple! I wonder if there’s any other creatures
that can do the same… Priiiiiiiiiingle? - What now you whackjob? - Can I saw you in half to see if you’ll
grow back? - I mean I will but it’s not going to be
pleasant for me. - *
- Man I better be getting paid extra for looking after this cat. Earthworms are hermaphrodites, meaning they
have both male and female reproductive organs. When mating, an Earthworm will form a tube
of mucous around its body. This tube is used to transport one worm’s
- err - “genetic material” - to the other. Later, the worm forms another tube of mucous
which passes over the sacs containing its eggs, collecting and fertilizing them. The tube then travels up the body of the worm
and is wriggled off at its head to form a cocoon. The eggs will then usually hatch within two
to three weeks. - Disgusting. - Yeah… - * 3. CrustyCrab Who invented the alphabet? - Well first they invented alphabetti spaghetti
and I guess all the dumb dumbs just picked it up from there. Then we could finally read all those books
that were just lying around. - I think you’ve got it a little backwards
there. - Excuse me? Can you even read? - A little. But I can become letters. - Ugh- boring! We get it, you can shapeshift. Learn something new, will ya? - I think I’m learning patience, believe
me. If we are talking about the English alphabet,
then no one person invented it. It developed over time from the mingling of
different languages. The old Anglo-Saxons of Britain communicated
using a runic language, that is until the Latin alphabet was introduced by Christians
in the seventh century AD. Later, in 1066, the Normans would invade and
the language would soon begin to reflect their rule. It wasn’t until the invention of the printing
press and its arrival in Britain during the mid 15th century that modern English and the
alphabet we know today would become standardized. 2. Chatika Where did the idea of cats having
nine lives come from? - Because cats are just plain better so naturally
they get eight more lives than fleshy people. - Man I always have to be careful around cats,
they sit everywhere and I end up stepping on-
- * - AWWWHHHH! GRRRRRR!!! - *
- * - Ah man, I need be more careful. - * Well we know that cats are pretty agile and
tend to land on their feet so it could be because of their survivability. There’s also an old English proverb about
a Cat’s nature, which goes: “A cat has nine lives. For three he plays, for three he strays, and
for the last three he stays.” Folklore also claims that the ancient Egyptian
God, Bast, who had the head of a cat was said to have nine lives. The number nine was also considered a mystic
number in some cultures, being the number that invokes tradition and religion. 1. Ammonite The SeaWing How did the medicine
ball get its name? - Because it’s filled with medicine, dumbie! You use them to make sick people feel better. Say, Pringle, you’re looking a little under
the weather. - I feel fine. - *
- Don’t you feeeeeeeeel better? - I feel better knowing that the video is
almost over. - Oh don’t worry, I can tell that me and
you are going to be fast friends. We’ll have so much fun together! Heh-heh-heh! - * The word “medicine” used to be more synonymous
with “health”. During the Renaissance, the physician Hieronymus
Mercurialis advised people to use what we now call medicine balls as a form of medicinal
gymnastics. The actual name was unintentionally created
in 1889 by a Professor Roberts in an article from Scientific America who claimed that the
ball “invigorates the body” and “preserves one’s health”. - *
- Priiiiiingle, where are you? I want to see what other things you can become
that I can splatter! - *
- Hey! What is this!? - *
- Hey Pringle- - Hey Pecan, I left your cat on the table
- can’t stop, got - * 