Chances are you might have heard the news. Raspberry is releasing a new device, finally,
we leave the 3 behind and play around with the Raspberry Pi 4. While I am sure many will be rushing to get
their hands on the new device there is a bit of secret I have been keeping for the last
few weeks. I have an early unit and that means that we
get to explore it a bit early on this preview. Let's begin by what has changed, and who better
to deliver the first explanation that Eben Upton, co-founder of the Raspberry Pi foundation,
one of the original creators of Raspberry Pi and current CEO of Raspberry Pi trading. I interviewed Mr Upton when I visited Cambridge
for checking out the Official Raspberry Pi Store and we ended up talking about a variety of
topics that you might have caught if you have seen some of the previous Raspberry Pi centred
videos. And at the end of that very interview he had
an unexpected surprise for me: Oh, what's this? This is a Raspberry Pi 4! It's our next Raspberry Pi, do you want me
to take you on a tour around the board? Ok, here we go. So, we got a new processor. This is a PCM2711. It's a successor of the 2837 that we used
on our Raspberry pi 3, it's got a quad cortex A72 with 1 and a half gigahertz. It's, let's say, depending on your workload,
I think three times the kind of- we've settled on- three times as powerful as the Raspberry
Pi 3. We changed Memory Channel technology so now we
can small up to 4 gigabytes of LPDDR4 memory. So we have, 1, 2 and 4 gigabyte skews of the
product. We've retained the A2211AC Wi -fi from Raspberry
Pi 3 Plus, so it's exactly the same chips that were there, I think we've picked up an
upgrade to bluetooth 5 along the way, a software upgrade to bluetooth 5. Over this side of the board you'll notice
the ethernet connector. It has moved up to the top of this edge, usually
it's- on previous pi's the ethernet connector is down here, but this is a Gigabite ethernet
connector that for the first time it has a full gigabite connector, so you can get your
full- whatever 900 and some megabites a second of IP traffic for that. That's a dedicated link for the SSC so a bandwith
isn't shared with anything else. On the end here, still 4 USB's, but you'll
see two of them are now blue so two of these are USB-3's, two of these are USB 2's and
these all come by this chip here which is a PCI-Express to USB chip that's all you'd
typically find in a PC. Other changes on the bottom edge, I guess,
we have a pair of HDMI, a pair of micro HDMI connectors so for the first time, this can
drive like two displays simultaneously, we can drive 4K p60, we can decode 4K p60 if
you see video, if you wanna drive two I think we can limit to 4K p30, just cause the memory
bandwith is going to get horrific if you try to do dual 4K p60. And then on the side you'll see this has turned
from a USB Micro B into a SPC connector so we can get a bit of more power in through-
more power into the board, the main reason to get more power into the board is to get
more power out of the board, so this improves the amount of power so they'll be able to
deliver downstream to USB devices. The overall thermal budget for the platform
is roughly the same from the Raspberry Pi 3 B Plus. So that's Raspberry Pi 4 and we hope you like
it. Let's walk through some of those changes and
what that could means. First is the expected improvement on CPU. While the improvement in performance that
you are going to see jumping to the next generation will depend a lot on the workload and in the
most extreme cases can appear several times more powerful. I decided to run a quick test with the Raspberry
Pis I could find using sysbench both running on all 4 cores and then just in a single core. In both cases, you can see a very strong reduction
in test times. Especially in the multicore test where times
are cut on a third. Not bad for starters. On the connectivity front, the ethernet makes
an interesting change. Previous versions of the Raspberry Pi had
the ethernet speed limited by the slower USB 2.0 bus. Both the limit on USB speed and ethernet were
probably a constant annoyance to the number of local network media centres
powered by Pis out there. Since now the Pi 4 finally jumps to USB 3.0
it is also able to do full Gigabit internet, which is likely to make a lot of those people
really happy. Especially those trying to boot from USB or
the network directly to a Pi. I do wonder why they shifted the position
of USB ports and Ethernet, as it might break some of the older cases and accessories but
on previous conversations with Mr. Upton he has mentioned how a lot of the detailed design
of the Raspberry has to do with keeping within the budget, so I would not be surprised if
this is a change in order to reduce cost. The power connector has changed from micro
USB to USB type C. From what I understand the reason Raspberry Pi has used micro USB
port for power until know for power is their easy availability. Thanks to widespread smartphone use these
chargers and cables are everywhere. USB type C is a bit newer and a bit less omnipresent,
but since it is starting to show on more and more mainstream devices
they are likely cheap enough as connectors to work under the Pis tight cost budget. I do wonder if they will prove to be resistant
enough for some of the messier projects out there, but the change seems for good reason,
as it can allow it to use up to 3 Amps versus the 2.5 of micro USB. Getting more power in to output to more powers
to accessories and this is likely a direct reaction to the way the community is using
Pi. Even some of the most standard projects out
there are getting ambitious with what they power using direct Pins or USB, the mini arcade
that I put together powers the screen directly from a USB and now people are likely going
to get more ambitious because of the next point. Dual screen capabilities! The Raspberry Pi 4 changes one full HDMI for
versus two micro HDMIs. The male micro HDMI connectors can be... fragile
at times and harder to find than regular HDMIs so once again a little convenience seems to
have been sacrificed for a new feature which is... dual screen support! The Raspberry Pi can now do two screens! At once! Now the change to type C seemed like an obvious
reaction to the needs of the community and a net positive. For the dual screen feature I am initially not super
excited about, but will probably be useful for how often Pis are used to power kiosks
of different kinds and I already could think of a couple of interesting
games uses. I expect this change to generate some interesting
discussion. If this is a net positive will depend on the
things people come up with. We will see about that soon enough! An interesting point that I did not go into
is the change in RAM. Changes in generations usually come with a
gradual increase in memory but this generation does something a bit interesting. The folks from Raspberry Pi have been experimenting
with the format and pricing on their microcomputers to adjust to the unexpected uses people have
found to their devices, which has to lead to stuff like the crazy good and cheap Zero to the industry focused compute module. This time things take a turn with different
models of the same device with more or less ram which I imagine is a response to the growing
number of users doing much bigger and more complex projects. No longer is the main model only $35 The 1 GB version is still $35 but with extra
RAM comes an increase in price, with 4 GB being the most expensive Raspberry Pi in a
while. Although being realistic it is still like,
less than a big game at release so I might be being overly dramatic. Still, at the end of the day, the option is
there and this is going to depend very much on what people are going to do with these. Are we going to see some interesting projects
that make use of all the extra memory to enable amazing stuff? Are there projects out there that were being
limited specifically by the lack of memory of the Pi 3 B+? If that is the case, this might have been
the correct decision. Now, since I have been fiddling around with
what is basically the pre-release software I have been unable to compile most of the
games and emulators I wanted to fully test this with due to some bugs. And that is why this is a preview. Now that the final version is out I will be
working on that so keep an eye out. One of the reasons why I love Raspberry Pis
is that they represent a fantastic snapshot of the technological capabilities of the industry
at a specific place in time. Let me explain what I mean, old Nintendo designer
Gunpei Yokoi, the father of the Gameboy had this fascination with ignoring bleeding edge technology for
finding better uses of existing, cheap, well-understood technology. This is why the Gameboy seemed outdated compared
to other handhelds but was much cheaper, had better battery life and was much more practical. And you can see the influence his philosophy
had all the way up to modern Nintendo, and you can easily see how I find this interesting
with my personal way of thinking about technology. In the same vein, the main Raspberry Pi computers
are a fascinating representation of the cheapening cost of technology. No Raspberry Pi is really made from the latest
tech available, but rather the things the industry understand and produces well
enough that it can be made at very low costs. This combines with the effort of a team of
people who are constantly looking for creative ways to pack more on this device while keeping
the tight budget and while maintaining and providing an optimized open source operating system for it. Either way, the best part of the Raspberry
Pi experience is the community effort and now that this device is out there in the world
I am excited to see what it will be used for. I am personally very curious to see when RetroPie
is going to be fully supported since I expect its extra power to allow for some rather ambitious emulation. This is likely going to be a future video
topic so… you know what to do if you want to find out. And as always, thanks for watching. 