at Brilliant.org/HAI. As long as an early August flight to Orlando
with 10 screaming babies behind you might seem, it’s not the longest flight in history. In fact, the longest flight ever is not even
the 8,000 mile trip from Dubai to San Francisco or even the 9,000 mile flight from Auckland
to Doha. It wasn’t even that time when Pakistan International
Airlines flew from Hong Kong to London the wrong way round or even that time in 2005
when a pilot circumnavigated the world from Kansas to Kansas non-stop or even that time
in 2006 when the same pilot flew from Florida to England with an extra circumnavigation
for good measure. The longest flight in history started in 1958
in a single engine Cessna 172 over the skies of New Mexico and didn’t end until 1959. In 1956, the Hacienda hotel opened in Las
Vegas, Nevada, but it had a problem. It really wasn’t in a good place. I mean a good place within Vegas, animator. All the popular casinos were over a mile north
so the owners desperately needed publicity. Luckily, one of the slot machine mechanics,
Robert Timm, came up with an idea. He was going to break the flight endurance
record and the Hacienda hotel was going to help. In exchange for prominently painting “Hacienda”
on the side of the plane, the owners of the hotel gave Timm $100,000 to fund the flight. Now with money, Robert Timm bought a used
Cessna 172 and got to work on some modifications. He installed an extra 95 gallon fuel tank,
modified the oil lines so he could replace the oil while in flight, and removed everything
from the interior but the pilot’s seat. He then put a small mattress in the front
and a small sink in the rear and lastly, he replaced the engine with a brand new one and
he was good to go. But then he received some bad news. Jim Heath and Bill Burkhart had just landed
their plane in Dallas after 50 days in the air. The record to beat was now four days longer. But the good news was that Timm found a co-pilot,
John Cook—no, not Professional Golfer John Cook or former mayor of El Paso John Cook,
this John Cook, experienced airline pilot and mechanic John Cook. The pair finished up their alterations and
then took off on National Cookie Day—that’s December 4th if you’re out of the know—bound
for nowhere but the record books. For the first few days they flew the plane
just around Las Vegas so they would have an airport to land at in case of issues, but
soon after they ventured south to fly over the deserts of California and Arizona. But what I’m sure you’re wondering is
how they refueled. They didn’t do air to air refueling and
it wasn’t a solar powered airplane or anything like that. Robert Timm and John Cook refueled their airplane
on their record breaking attempt by matching speed with a pickup truck and dropping a fuel
line down. For a full three minutes twice per day the
truck and plane went along a deserted stretch of highway like that. For food, the restaurant of the Hacienda Hotel
prepared gourmet meals that were hoisted up to the airplane by rope. The pair took turns flying for four hours,
then sleeping for the next four. The flight initially went smoothly. Christmas and the new year came and went with
no major mechanical issues, but the isolation and exhaustion from the flight started to
get to the pilots. Cessna’s are small and loud—hardly a good
home for weeks upon weeks. On day 36, the pair narrowly avoided disaster. In the early hours of the morning Cook was
having his rest while Timm was in the pilot seat flying the plane, until he dozed off. Luckily the autopilot was engaged so the plane
flew for a full hour halfway to the Mexican border before Timm woke up. On day 39 the generator failed which meant
the plane had no heat, no light, and no autopilot. But they were nearing the record. 11 more days of flying passed, then, on day
50, January 23rd, the Hacienda Cessna 172 broke the record for the longest continuous
flight in history, but they weren’t done yet. Timm and Cook pressed on, determined to make
their record last. As 50 days became 60 the engine started to
become weaker and weaker as carbon clogged the combustion chambers and they could barely
gain any altitude. It was time to land. So, on February 7th, 1959, after 64 days,
22 hours, and 19 minutes and 150,000 miles of flying, the Hacienda Cessna 172 touched
back down at McCarren Field and cemented its place in the record books, a record that still
stands today. 