Welcome to the all-time least popular episode
of Half as Interesting. So say you want to make an emoji, a new one. I don’t, but I wanted to make a video so
I talked to a guy. “My name is Jeremy Burge. I’m the founder of Emojipedia and the vice-chair
of the Unicode Emoji subcommittee.” (0:09) Jeremy’s Wikipedia page says he’s
a “widely-regarded expert” on emojis while my Wikipedia page says… nothing since I
don’t have one so I guess he’s cooler than me. Being an Emoji expert means you know things
like, “The ROFL emoji is rising every year. So that’s the laughing crying on its side,
that’s on the up.” (23:24)
Just like all fun technologies, Emojis originated in Japan. But originally, “They only worked on one
type of phone and one type of phone network and then all the other networks wanted to
get on board and they just didn’t work very well across platforms.” (1:10) Emojis quickly rose in popularity,
but there was no one standard. “What could happen is you could send a picture
of a boy or a girl and on the other end it could end up a piece of cake or a piece of
sushi.” (3:45) It was chaos. Essentially, when one phone sends an emoji,
it doesn’t send the actual image of an emoji, it sends a code that corresponds to the image
and so if one phone’s codes were different than another’s, the wrong emoji could appear,
but then the Unicode Consortium stepped in. Their primary purpose is to make sure that
all 136,755 characters in their standard can be seen across every single computer and phone
in the world. Nowadays, however, 2,666 of those characters
are emojis. “So anyone can submit a proposal for an
emoji to the Unicode consortium. They’ve got a bunch of criteria to make
sure that it’s going to meet the minimum bar, as such. You want to prove, to start with, that it
doesn’t already exist.” (5:40) In addition, in a submission you have
to prove that the proposed emoji will be frequently used, is a distinct image that can be identified
at the small size, is needed to fill a gap in the emoji alphabet, is frequently requested,
and is able to be shown visually. A “I just forgot the name of a casual acquaintance
I’ve known for years and called them ‘bud’” emoji likely would not get accepted since
it’s just too abstract. There are also certain factors that will disqualify
a candidate emoji. For example, Unicode generally denies emojis
that are too specific. A “I went on StarTalk with Neil deGrasse
Tyson and now realize I have a resting nervous face,” emoji would likely get denied for
this reason. For the same reason, they won’t approve
submissions for specific people, brands, or locations. There are, though, actually some existing
emojis that violate this rule since some emojis made it in only because they existed pre-Unicode. For example, this Emoji exists of a statue
outside Shibuya Station in Tokyo even though an emoji of such a specific location would
never be approved nowadays. All those different criteria are addressed
and compiled into a submission report by whoever is proposing the emoji and then this is then
sent to Unicode. That’s where Jeremy gets involved. “I’m the vice-chair of the subcommittee
which sounds more exciting than it is, to be honest. It’s mostly an initial vetting on proposals
that come in to make sure they’re in good order before they get taken to the real decision
makers which is the technical committee meeting.” (9:35) Essentially, the emoji subcommittee
just decides whether a submission fulfills the criteria. “Once it’s approved that it at least meets
the minimum criteria it goes to what’s called the Unicode technical committee and each company
that’s involved with Emojis such as Apple or Google or Microsoft—they get a vote and
if a decision needs to be made they can each vote individually for an emoji or any text
character to be approved.” (6:50) The majority of the committee’s time
is actually spent on non-emoji matters making decisions about how other characters should
be encoded but with how frequently these emojis are used, these are very important decisions. Still today though, each company designs how
emojis look for their respective devices. Emojis are supposed to more or less look the
same across platforms, but sometimes they don’t. “There was an emoji, the eye roll emoji
that’s meant to be, sort of, uhhh, but, for whatever reason on Samsung phones it looked
really happy so a Samsung user could send you what they thought was a happy face and
they’d say, ‘hey do you want to catch up later on, happy face’ and then you’d
get a message that says, ‘hey do you want to catch up later on, uhhh.’” (5:08) In an ideal world the standardization
of emojis would extend to their actual design, but right now that’s impossible since emojis
are copyrighted by their respective designers. That also means that pretty much every single
piece of emoji clothing or merchandise you’ve ever seen was illegal including the shirt
that Jeremy was wearing during this interview. 