One of the most interesting things about the
superhero genre is that it doesn’t exist in a vacuum. These characters have appeared in comics,
cartoons, TV shows, movies, video games, and so much more. And these adaptations outside of the original
source material have a powerful impact on not just the public perception of the superheroes
they portray, but they also often influence the source material itself. Now, Marvel and DC have existed for almost
a century, and because of that the entertainment mediums that influenced these characters have
kind of come and gone. Like, Superman was highly influenced by that
old radio show and Batman was heavily influenced by the Adam West TV show, but one character
in particular is very much crafted by the Internet, Deadpool, and today we’re going
to talk about exactly how he changed from a pretty mundane character to something a
lot more crazy and wacky simply because of the internet and meme culture. In order to better understand Deadpool, we
need to look at Marvel’s history with characters who broke the fourth wall prior to his creation. Oh yeah, Wade Wilson wasn’t the first. Now I know it’s surprising to some people
given the reaction to the announcement for her show on Disney+, but Jennifer Walters
A.K.A. She-Hulk has been in Marvel comics for decades
and in an era before Deadpool, she was Marvel’s most prominent fourth wall breaker, and she
did it all the time in her ongoing series. We see this style of humor from the very first
cover of Sensational She-Hulk #1 where she threatens to rip up the reader’s X-Men comics
if they don’t buy her book. And at the end of the series, she actually
tried to follow through on that threat. She tears through the paper of her own comic,
she kills a villain by pointing out the continuity of him already being dead, she teases the
reader with this jump roping censorship bit while also discussing the absurdity of sex
appeal in the comic industry, and so much more! Now She-Hulk has transitioned from a gag character
to a more serious one and the amount that she breaks the fourth wall comes and goes
as a result. But, it was prevalent in Dan Slott and Peter
David’s run on her from 2005 to 2009. This was, coincidentally, around the same
time that another Marvel character started stealing her spotlight for similar antics. But, we’re getting ahead of ourselves because
the Deadpool of that era is very different from how he started out. Deadpool made his first appearance in New
Mutants #98 in 1991. And his creator, Rob Liefeld, made him as
a sort of Spider-Man character for the book with a dash of Deathstroke from DC Comics’s
thrown in for good measure. I mean, come on, they have similar costumes,
and Deadpool is named Wade Wilson while Deathstroke is named Slade Wilson. It’s pretty obvious that there was some
design similarities, intentional or otherwise, but just don’t tell Rob Liefeld that. “Black and red! Black and red do not equal blue and orange! I’m not sure. People ask me “Do you see the similarities?” I don’t!” So Spider-Man. How would you describe his personality? I would say that he’s lighthearted and quippy
almost to a fault. I mean one of the biggest reasons why Spidey
villains hate him so much is that not only is he punching them with inhuman levels of
strength, but he’s insulting them all the while and NEVER shuts up. He’s the hero with a mouth. For comparison, here’s the first page we
ever see of Deadpool. “You’re Nathan, right? I’m Deadpool. Pleased to meet you. Mr. Tolliver hired me to find you.” “And you have.” “Yup. Well, Mr. Tolliver also hired me to kill you. You know how fastidious Mr. Tolliver is about
these things, right? So when I frost your sorry old mechanical
butt, don’t take it personally, okay?” Yeah, if you told me that this was just an
evil version of Spider-Man, I would totally believe you. OG Deadpool was full of quips, one-liners,
and non sequiturs in his early appearances, but he was still a far cry from most modern
interpretations of him. Back then, Wade was Spider-Man style comedian
with killer skills to back him up. It makes a lot of sense why Deadpool got the
title of the merc with a mouth. Since his first appearance, Deadpool has gone
on to, without a doubt, become the most successful superhero to be introduced within the last
30 years. He became a supporting character in the X-Force
series before spinning out into an ongoing solo run in 1997 and he only skyrocketed in
popularity from there. Yet, with the internet making its way into
more and more homes, the comic book community grew from local shops and conventions to forums
and sites like CBR, 4chan, Cheezburger, and 9gag. On a lot of these sites, memes and image macros
were the default ways that users communicated with each other, and a zany character like
Deadpool was ripe for being used in this fashion. I mean hell, Know Your Meme even named their
rejected entries category after him! As She-Hulk’s series (which was one of Marvel’s
biggest comedy books at the time) was winding down, Deadpool was the perfect character to
take over, and with writer Daniel Way’s Deadpool series hitting the scene, the character’s
already large popularity blew up to unseen heights. Way’s run embraced the comedic side of Deadpool
more than probably any other writer prior, and pretty much every issue was a meme and
reaction image gold mine for the internet, like this iconic pancake shot. Stills from this series were being shared
online every single time that a new issue was dropped and, like clockwork, they would
go viral every single time, breaking into sites and communities outside of the comic
fandom like Twitter, Reddit, and Tumblr. Also around this time, breaking the fourth
wall was becoming a huge trope in media that was produced for the internet, but superhero
comics only did it on occasion, and were generally done in more serious meta ways like in Grant
Morrison’s run on Animal Man. While Wade Wilson had slightly broken the
fourth wall in the past, both the Deadpool solo series leaned into it a LOT more heavily
to the point where now, it’s become one of Deadpool’s most defining characteristics. With a unique blend of lolrandom humor and
fourth wall breaking, Way’s series hit the scene at just the right time and Deadpool
quickly became a fan favorite among people who had never even read a comic before. Noticing this, Marvel started merchandising
the hell out Deadpool, especially in stores like Hot Topic, and anybody attending conventions
in the mid-2000s can attest, there were Deadpool cosplayers EVERYWHERE. And heck, even the comics got a sales boost
with some of these non-readers deciding to give the series a shot. Wade’s book sales absolutely eclipsed She-Hulk’s,
and when her run ended in 2009, Deadpool was cemented as THE comedy character at Marvel
Comics. This sales success would balloon to the point
where Deadpool was headlining four separate Marvel titles at one time, a feat that usually
would only be achieved by long standing icons like Wolverine and Batman. This would hit its peak around 2009 to 2010,
and ironically, some of that success could be argued to have come from X-Men Origins:
Wolverine butchering the character so much. For those of you that are somehow out of the
loop, while X-Men Origins: Wolverine had plenty of other faults as a movie, Deadpool ended
up looking like this, literally getting rid of the mouth of a character who is known as
the Merc With a Mouth. Needless to say, there was backlash, but for
general audiences who had never heard of Deadpool prior, the outrage against X-Men Origins was
definitely there to educate them. Vocal fans were quick to rage and rant about
the character that they were robbed of on mainstream sites, explaining what made Deadpool
such a great character in their eyes. And of course, they shared those viral stills
from Daniel Way’s run. As a result, Deadpool in his purest form was
getting seen by a whole new potential fanbase, making him even more famous and popular. The downside though is that this backlash
against the live action portrayal kind of led the comics to overcompensate for the on
screen injustice. Deadpool became more crazy, more random, more
comedy focused, and of course more... memey. This is “Flanderization”, a fan term that
was named after the Simpon’s character Ned Flanders where a more complex character becomes
more and more one note as time goes on. Now, Flanderization is not ALWAYS a bad thing,
but this even more over the top Deadpool became somewhat divisive for Deadpool fans, myself
included. “Memepool” as he was starting to be known
as, didn’t resonate with everyone. A contingent of fans thought that Deadpool’s
character was getting lost in the situations and plots that he was put into. Wade had become more famous than ever, sure,
but to some he had also lost the edge which made him so popular to begin with. Of course, fan praise and criticism really
don’t mean a whole lot to corporations, it’s money that talks and there’s no denying
that the Deadpool comic and merch sales were going through the roof. This second wave of Deadpool fame is also
why we got the 2013 Deadpool video game. After X-Men Origins, this was the largest
non-comic project that the character was at the forefront of and fans absolutely loved
how the character was portrayed! This was the character that fans wanted, not
the no-mouth Baraka from the movie. And what came out of the video game? More memes, more popularity with non-comic
readers, and of course A LOT more sales in merchandise. The meme culture that Deadpool ferociously
led would translate into merch and marketing campaigns based on these very memes. I mean good god, there are so many Deadpool
taco shirt and they all somehow sell, despite being the same joke. It was only a matter of time until a character
this popular got a solo movie. And, you’d think that after the backlash
of X-Men Origins, Fox would want to try as hard as they could to make fans forget that
it ever happened. That’s why it’s so surprising that Ryan
Reynolds (the actor that played him) was being brought back for a potential Deadpool solo
movie. But… here’s the thing. Ryan Reynolds and Deadpool are, like, cosmically
made for eachother. The comics kind of predicted that he would
get the role, and Reynolds has been a huge fan of Deadpool from the get-go. And his clear passion for the character is
one of the main reasons why the solo movie was being made in the first place! Although test footage was created, the movie
wasn’t officially greenlit until it was purposely leaked by someone close to the project
onto the very sites where Deadpool became memeified in the first place. And let’s be real, it was most likely Reynolds
himself that did the leaking. “It was me, Rhett Reese, Paul Wenick, and
Tim Miller, the director. One of us did it. We all sorta said at the beginning ‘Someone
should leak it!’ ‘Someone should leak it!’. The idea was played around with, but I’m
70% sure it wasn’t me.” Ryan Reynolds spent eleven years trying to
get this project off the ground and when the leaked footage sparked major fan interest,
the movie was practically greenlit overnight. This was a move that could only have really
been done by a true fan that GETS where the character comes from and completely sums up
the power that Deadpool gets from the internet. Of course, memes can’t successfully sell
a movie by themselves and it’s the quality writing that really made it a smash success. It also helps that it was released at the
perfect time when superhero movies were saturating the market to the point of audience fatigue. Deadpool became the perfect outlet to vent
some of those frustrations with the genre while also breathing fresh life into it by
doing something bold and daring. With two mega successful movies under the
franchise’s belt, the comics have kind of been playing catch-up. I mean, the movies struck a much better balance
between Memepool and the character at his best and thankfully, the books have been trying
to adopt this approach. They’re walking the character back, they’re
de-Flanderizing him, and as a result, we’re ending up with what is considered to be some
of the best Deadpool stories ever written. Writer Gerry Duggen especially has worked
at balancing the more tragic elements of Deadpool with his comedic side and the storyline “The
Good, The Bad, and The Ugly” is consistently cited as one of, if not THE best all time
Deadpool work of all time. It’s no real surprise that Deadpool, the
first character to really latch onto internet culture, became such a huge success, and he
really showed the comic industry how to properly use the wild west that is the internet. He walked, so that modern characters with
all of their Twitter love could run, and I think they owe a little something to this
avocado-looking ass ancestor. This video would not have been possible without
a little bit of help behind the scenes. Since you guys probably know that I’m really
not a huge Deadpool fan, this was co-written by my buddy Chris, and I want to have him
on in future videos to help out as well for things that I have a little bit of less expertise
in. And also, a big thank you to my voice cast,
Jordan Cruz and Rummy. You guys were awesome for getting that Cable
and Deadpool dynamic down, but anyway, I hope you guys learned at least a little something
new, and hopefully, I’ll see you next time. 