To make this crazy dream come true 
there's a lot to do, and check this out! My private space ship. [long synth notes] Over here I have outboard candy for audio engineers, over here I have some preamps. And in this episode we're gonna talk about 
my studio build a little bit, because we've been doing installation two,
 out of totally three. So this is the space ship in which 
I will attempt to propel myself out of the marble galaxy filled with 
marbles on the floor  and into the music stratosphere. Let's go! Building my own high-end music studio has been 
a lifelong dream for me and I'm working together with Olivier from Id Acoustique to make 
this other dream come true. And this week we have finished 
installation two out of three. Early this spring we showed a video 
doing the first installation, and installation two has really transformed
 the room in an amazing way. So we started with customizing this desk, and before, over here, there was only place 
for rack units at the top, and we customized it so I could fill it 
all the way down to the bottom,  which I think was a really good call. So I was a fragile snowflake, I had pain here 
from the edge of the table. So now Olivier is [laughter] rounding the edge. [sanding] Now my snowflake arms have a really
 smooth and nice edge here, when I'm working at the desk. That feels awesome. Olivier brought a huge team with six people. While we were working at the desk, 
the team worked at the electric central, and starting to prepare the acoustic 
treatment of the walls. So the first step for the walls was 
to prepare a wood structure  on which we could add acoustic panels later. And I love the use of laser measures, 
they use them all the time, and they fix the wall so if it was crooked,  they fix so the wood structure in itself 
was completely flat and straight. So next step for the walls was to add 
rockwool between the wood structure, and then finish off with grey acoustic 
high-density felt boards. The total thickness of the wall absorbers
 are now 64 millimeters. So when you have a concrete wall, and you
 add 64 millimeters of absorbance that will not deal with bass frequencies but this is only the background layer 
of the acoustic treatment of the studio. In step three we will add bass traps 
on top of this treatment, but that is for later. Ouca switched the position of the electric central 
because it was in the way for an acoustic panel and it ended up being inside my machine room, 
which looks really, really, really neat. So the electricity is finally becoming safer 
and safer and more stable in my studio. We're also dividing the electric circuits 
so I can have audio equipment on one circuit and general equipment 
on another and lights on a third. This will reduce hum in the audio recordings, 
which is really nice. In the first installation we designed this 
cool stage with cable doors in the floor and we left some rockwool visible 
in these cable doors. And I felt when I was working with that, that was  not so nice sticking your hand down
 in pure rock wool. So Olivier made a really nice redesign where he made like an inside box inside these
 cable doors  and mounted the electric outlets safely
 onto the wall. So this new look is really nice 
for the cable doors. I'm very happy with the general idea 
of hiding all the cables under the floor,  because it's just much neater. There are different types of acoustic panels. 
Absorbers eat the sound wave and diffusers explodes the sound wave, 
making a room sound bigger than it is. So basically the sound wave come
 to the wall and becoming exploded into a million different parts
 going all the directions. So here we're adding these black
 cool looking diffusers  into the live room of the studio. This is the place where we're gonna put 
drum kits, pianos, vibraphones. It's a part of the music studio where we're
 gonna have a little bit more room sound, a little bit less dead acoustics and the diffusers
 are meant to do a good job at that. Olivier calls this "the live room" because
 the acoustics is going to be more lively in here that's why we're using more diffusers,  that are spreading the sound
 in a nice way, rather than absorbers that are muting 
and muffling the sound. So the plywood floor... 
[accidentally plays long synth notes] Whoa, the synth scared me!
[laughs] I was a little bit nervous for the plywood 
floor I'm sitting on, that it would become a hollow box with resonance inside and after the first installation, I felt 
there was a little bit going that way. So Olivier fixed this by adding this super-cool 
black backing and more rockwool under each of the plywood parts of the stage. Martin: - Olivier, why are you wrapping 
the plywood with something black? Olivier: - Yes, this is a dampening mass, we are dampening the resonance of the wood  that could occur when you walk on the floor, but also, it could occur as bass frequencies
 made by the speakers, for example. So this is very, very heavy, it's like ten kilos by square meter, and it will block the sound. Martin: - The team was here for four full days, 
and they did so much. They put the floor into the live room, 
we put acoustic curtains on two rails, we changed the whole light rig around
 in several places, we're still struggling a little bit with how to
 put the lights, this is just a work in progress, we sanded in all the floor, and it was really 
a huge transformation of the whole room. The moment has arrived that I've been
 waiting for a long time; I'm going to populate my studio desk 
with all my rack equipment. I have sent my Genelec monitors on repair, and here is two big Focal monitors that I have been
 borrowing from Olivier. It's going to be very fun trying them out,
 seeing how they sound. And if you see my sound interface lying on the table, this is basically how I've been working
 a lot in my life. And now we're going to stop this  by mounting everything neatly
 in the rack units. I have three full rack cupboards. One here, another full one here, here is my side rack, designed in the same way 
as my desk, so that's a third one. This is one, two, three Micstasy preamps resulting in 24 channels corresponding
 to the cable  we just installed in the Marble Machine X. The gain LEDs on these preamps are
 pretty beautiful when they move. So I'm gonna put these three preamps
 on the top, right here, so I can have an angle to film the preamps  while the Marble Machine X is recorded
 in the background. So you can kind of see: Doo, kah, doo, kah. Maybe this is not the most functional placement  but it's going to be a really aesthetical one. There's a kink here in the rack, 
which means that we can't really put a long unit here, so in the kink I'm going to put a blank shield, and then this power bar. It gives a design character to the whole desk, but you're paying a small price 
of functionality for that character. This is the actual interface that connects
 to the computer and puts all the audio in through MADI here. Yeah! This is the sound interface basically. Now comes a 32 channel analog-to-digital interface. It takes all the audio from here and convert it to digital to send into this interface. So, here you can see all the audio 
is coming in, through these ports and out via a single MADI digital cable
 into the interface. At the very bottom I'm putting this power strip with eight other power outlets facing inwards and in the remaining space I put this rack shelf. Just an empty shelf to hold any equipment 
you need to put in. On the shelf, I'm putting my NAD amplifier for the Yamaha NS-10M monitors. So, this
 amplifier I never have to touch the settings, so it's convenient to put it far down 
and just forget about it down here. Left rack is finished, let's move over
 to the right one. This is space time machine reverb, "RaumZeit Maschine" from boutique audio Tegeler audio. Two Neve 1073 preamps clones, 
two real Neve 1073 preamps. Universal Audio 6176, blank panel, 
power strip and then this reverb... This reverb is a Lexicon MX400,
sent to me by Greg Clement. Thank you so much, Greg! Awesome, awesome! 
I'm looking forward to try it. Here's an another Lexicon, 
strange reverb unit, the LXP-5. A Fireface interface that I'm gonna use as... 
analog digital converter for all this, a DMX rack unit for all the lights in the whole studio and a power strip furthest down. Time to start the cable management. I'm going to start 
with the power cables for all these rack units. I'm using these velcro cable ties. We are under the desk on the left side. 
There are the power cables. Same thing here on the right side. 
Let's go check out if this works. Left side is great. So the spaceship feeling is really 
coming across here. Next step: Connect speakers, both 
the Focal and the Yamaha NS-10M. This is the classic triangle listening 
positions when position studio monitor. Me and Olivier has designed this desk 
to host two screens next to each other, which means that the speakers 
are kind of wide apart, in this triangle between the speakers
 and my listening position. So if I feel that the stereo image is a little bit too wide, I can move back a little bit or lay the speakers
 down with the tweeters inside, but the vertical position seems to be 
preferred when possible. Another good practice is to not put the speakers 
directly on your desk, because it can resonate with it. So I'm just using a little bit of this 
acoustic foam under the speaker. This speaker stand has actually a tilt
 function, so you can see that I've tilted the Focal monitors 
a little bit forward. I think that speaker placement look good, now I just have to mirror it on the other side 
and connect the cables. Underneath the speakers, Olivier 
has designed a cable input, so we can put the cables through the desk. So the cable that goes into the back side
 of the Focal can then be routed down here and in through the desk... Here. To choose between the two speaker pairs
 I'm putting the Focal on output one and two, and then on output 3 and 4 I have this 
going into the Yamaha NS-10 NAD amplifier. In the mixer here in the computer I have created a "Speaker B" output that I can control from this thing. So this is a digital controller 
for the speakers, so now I can... If I play a piece of music, I can 
change the volume and I've linked the volume 
on the two speakers. By just clicking here I'm switching between
 the Focal and the NS-10. But this is any cable manager's nightmare. We can't, of course, live like this. So I did some cleaning up of the table,
 as you can see, and check this out! Me and Olivier have trouble shoot 
the lighting system. So this is a light control panel. 
So now when I move... the fader with the mouse, I turn
 that lamp on and off, see that? [Martin emphasize fader moves]
Dee-kah, dee-kah, dee-kah! There's also strobe mode. [triumphant laugh] That looks crazy now. So, every light in the studio is going to be
 controlled by DMX here and I can save a preset and save it here in this panel, 
so preset "two one". Over here on the right side, I have my
 Norman headphones plugged into something controversial... This is something for you all to argue about 
in the comment section,  an headphone amplifier from Neve. Total placebo waste of money, or crucial to make great mixes?
[laughing] I'm not gonna say! I just bought this 
as a gift to myself, because it had such a nice feeling 
of this volume knob here. And it's a nice feeling to have, like, 
highest-end equipment. They say headphones needs a lot of ohm. I am going to A/B-test it compared to the headphone 
out of the UFX interface. I have tried to do some A/B-testing, 
but then I'm plugging it in myself so I know which one I'm listening to. Which... it's not a like double blind 
experiment or what it's called. I can't really judge correctly. Some people will say that I have bad ears 
if I don't hear the difference. Some people will say that I have... a bad brain who throws away money.
[chuckles] [background music]
[♪ unreleased/The Challenge - Drumbeat ♪] These are the cables to connect all the 24 
preamps with the analog digital interface. So there's eight channels per cable 
and three cables for 24 channels. [drum beat music]
[♪ unreleased/The Challenge - Drumbeat ♪] So, I've also now connected the cable 
from the Marble Machine X, all 24 channels into the preamps 
and then out again. And a lot of people have suggested to put
 a digital interface on the Marble Machine X itself. And they say that we can have 32 channels
 in a small cable like this. That is true. I didn't want to put all this onto 
the Marble Machine X, and there are smaller preamps that takes less space, but not 
as high-end as these preamps. But the point that you can have a digital 
thin cable is true. This is a MADI cable. So with this cable all the sound will 
go through this single cable. And it just feels more intuitive to me
 to treat it like a music instrument and treat the preamp part as a studio. Okay! Everything is connected. Let's see if all the 24 channels are healthy. Yo, yo, yo! I'm gonna make microphone test... No, and actually audio channel test, so I'm connected to the first channel here  through the Marble Machine X. Now I hit record in Logic... 
24 channels recording. I'm going to head over to the Marble Machine X
 and connect in all 24 channels and you should see each number 
popping up at these 24 preamps. This is channel 1. Channel 2. Channel 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Check 20 21. Check it 22! Booyakasha! 23 and it's Christmas eve, or Christmas day 
depending on which country you live in,  on channel 24. Do we have 24 healthy channels in the house? Checking the recording. [Martins voice played back]
"Okay. This is channel 1, check. Channel 2..." and look here. This looks wrong. [playback almost inaudible]
"check. Channel 3." Channel three has not been healthy. "check. Channel 4. Channel 5. Channel 6... 
Check 21." I get more and more excited...
[laughing] "Twenty two!"
Everything but channel three. Hmm. Let's go back and try again. 
See what happened there. The channel 3 is not working 
from the machine. I connect myself directly into the preamp
 and now everything is healthy. Everything after the boa constrictor 
is healthy, somewhere in the big cable we have 
an issue on channel 3. I'm gonna talk to Christof to see 
what he thinks I should look at first. It can be on kind of a lot of places.
[laughing] [Martin in robot voice]
"Warning! Main control unit deactivated!" "Preparing for docking." [Martin makes the sound of landing aircraft] "Main control... unit..." "... docking ..." "Insufficient arm power." Whoa, whoa whoa, whoa, whoa. Whoa, that length has been changed. Argh! [robot voice again]
"Attempt aborted." [laughing] "Re-configuring docking hatch placement." "Youtube clown re-activated."
"Self-loathing initiated." [chuckles] "Secondary docking attempt of command 
central initiated, we have first contact." "Command central secure." 
"Musical instruments digital interface cable!" [makes rocket thrust sound] "Sonic explosion incoming: three... two... one..." [♪ unreleased/Feels Like Home ♪] [no speech] Hannes: - Olivier, could you tell us something 
exciting about the next installment? Olivier: - Spoiler alert: [laughing]
[birds chirping on background] It's gonna be very awesome, and... yes, this will be a major visual 
change in the studio. On installation 3 we are we are
 focusing on two major goals: bass trapping and variable acoustics. About variable acoustics... You already saw some of the designs 
we are going to use on other videos. We have three different surfaces 
that offer acoustic tuning. The wall on the stage with vertical slats, rotating. There will be foldable wood panels above the machine, that will just slide like this, and let sound be absorbed by an acoustic ceiling above. And the third acoustic solution will be
 on the cyclorama. Cyclorama is installed in front of 
openings of the room... [wind noises] doors and windows. So it will have some opening wood parts 
that will be covered with acoustics outside. So, when you open it becomes acoustic 
and when you close, it's just a cyclorama. So this way we have three different parts 
of the room, that can have variable acoustics. 
It's all custom parts. And I'm working with a friend, Clément, which is an engineer in mechanics,
[♪ music starts again on background ♪] to help with all the mechanical parts, because there is a lot. 
Hannes: - And I love that in the vein of the machine itself, overly engineered, like, all your solutions now are so cool 
and overly engineered. Yeah, it mirrors the machine so nicely! 
[laughing] Olivier: - Yes, yes. It has to mirror a little bit 
the machine, it's far from it, but... Some... some common DNA... needs... Martin: - I absolutely love this spot 
on the planet Earth. This is my spaceship to... propel myself 
into the music stratosphere. So, thank you for following this build series 
of the Marble Machine X. These kind of projects is a very important
 part of the Marble Machine X process, but we will be back next week with more 
build videos on the Marble Machine X, and in August, when we're doing installation 3 out of 3, 
we will be covering that as well, of course. Thanks, Olivier and Id Acoustique, and thanks 
to the patrons and the youtube members, and thank you for everyone watching, and an extra thanks to the Marble Machine X CAD team, that are working on discord right now. I think we're above 60 people in the CAD team, and honestly to each and every one of you in the CAD team, I want to say personal thanks for pushing that project, while I'm pushing this project, so, that's really awesome. [music ends in epic chord] Headphone episode, everyone. It's gonna be
 more of those soon. [the tone glides from bass into treble, then fades] [whispering] 
See you next week! 