(Guess where we are!) (We're at the filming set of tvN's
 'It's Okay to Not Be Okay') (Gyuri on standby with
the actress Jang Youngnam) (Today is first day of shooting 
of Gyuri who plays Song Byul) (Gyuri practicing on facial expressions
before the shoot) Action! Cut! (Gyuri focuses on director's instructions) (Awkward) (Always carefully check the monitor!) (Awkward) Youngnam helped me a lot... So nervous! I'm nervous because
It's my first day on the set... So nervous I'll shake so much when
 I do the lines (Worried) What do I do? During the first scene, Youngnam
would tell me to get to work I was supposed to say "Yes" but I just couldn't say it so I just passed by
without saying anything (Gyuri preparing for the next scene
listening carefully to the director) Cut! Cut! I'm satisfied so far You played very well (Thank you, Youngnam!) (Gyuri got complimented by the director) (Embarrassed)
No, really I mean it You're doing great I'll describe my character 'Byeol' as... bright and friendly she gets along with patients she follows this other
character Juri well and she cares about
her appearance a lot Youngnam has guided me so well It's like she builds up
my character as well I can't thank her enough... I still have a lot to learn She helps with my character too... I won't give you any instructions here You can do whatever you
want in this scene Okay - We're rolling!
- Now, stay still! One, two Action! Good job
(Director compliments Gyuri again!) (Gyuri practices her lines
between scenes) "Manic?" "Acute mania..." (Gyuri does the line
she practiced perfectly) He hikes one mountain to the next
whenever it rains You won't catch him Hello, I'm Byeol You're a star(*pun) to my heart For the first time, I wore a nurse's outfit I'm working with great staff
and great actors I feel grateful To Jang Gyuri tvN's 'It's Okay to Not Be Okay' First time shooting a drama... It really is different Ta da
(ID card - Nurse / Seon Byeol) I'm awkward when I'm filming I'm worried about how you feel
 when you watch the drama At the same time,
I'm getting my hopes up too... I'm doing great I think I am... Why? I'm Jang Gyuri I'm Jang Gyuri
I'm doing just fine Why? Because I'm a psycho (???) I'm a psycho
so I have to do great What am I saying... Today is my first day filming I've been working so hard today So I'm a bit out of my mind... I hope flover understand and support (Nom nom) (Gyuri starts eating snacks on standby) (Oh!) You want some? (Nom) (Woah) (Tap tap tap) Hello, flover! I'm Byeol who missed flover all-day Today was the first day
I got a bit nervous I don't even know what I did today I keep thinking about
what I did wrong today I want to shoot the whole
thing all over again... It's my first time
I still have a lot to learn It will look awkward at first but I'd appreciate your support Please look forward to my character,
Byeol in this drama and support (Please support Gyuri's new challenge!) (And show lots of love for Seon Byeol
on tvN's 'It's Okay to Not Be Okay!) Cut! Okay 