Is there anyone out there? Hello! Is there anyone there? We need help! We need
support... We need gorilla's... can anybody help? Whey up internet, so then to celebrate the
release of Far Cry 6 on the 7th of October XBOX and Ubisoft have challenged me Colin
Furze to recreate some of the items within the items in the game is the supremo backpacks.
One of them in particular, which is called the exterminador is like a load of mortars
stacked up on your back, you kneel on the ground, obviously push your button, loads
of rockets go off and destroy the enemy. Now of course this is the UK there is not mortars
lying around, we cannot go and buy them, but we can use fireworks and that is very Furze So this is what I'm proposing, we're going
to cobble up a backpack, which is essentially a fireworks display, which is going to launch
from my back at the flick of a switch, but remember resolver philosophy, everything has
to come from the scrap yard! No new stuff Colin, no, all from the scrap yard! Man! Go,
let's go! This, this is where I will find lots of rubbish! interesting OK, been to the scrap yard, got
loads of junk and I was thinking, if i'm gonna be letting fireworks off my back, I want a
little bit of protection. So I've got a seat, I have mutilated it. I've removed the top
part, so now we've just got the back of it and welded to the frame of these little studs,
so now we can bolt a board or something whatever onto the back, let all the fireworks off.
I've got a bit of a head protection with the old head rest, and there we are, beautiful.
Right let's work out how we're going to display everything, and how
we're going to mount everything on the back of this wonderful object. oh smells like a
textbook scrapyard seat! It's got an airbag though if I fall over! Medium-sized rockets like this, we've got
slightly larger rockets like this, only problems with them... big long sticks! not a fan of
that. We don't want sticks, sticking at the bottom! Now these ones are a lot smaller and
these are quite good because this is what's called a rocket volley and this whole box,
you like one fuse and the whole lot of them go off because this has basically got like
quick match in it, so one spark and this whole thing just immediately lights and goes off,
so we can slide a load these down like a canister thing, one bosh,
the whole lot's gone off, and then maybe, we can have things like the cakes 25 shot.
We could put a couple of them down the back and then on the flanks we can have these little
sparky things, have a couple of big ones... boom, sparks that's what it does in the game right?! Now
for remotely lighting fireworks before in the past i've used these e-matches now this
is essentially like a little bit of pyro on the end of a cable connected to a battery
it pops, it lights the fuse, perfectly fine, it works really well, the only issue is, if
we've got loads of these in a backpack, so there's essentially like 20 fuses, every time
we want to set them off, we've got 20e matches to swap and that, I can tell you is an absolute
pain! My arm mounted rocket launcher things, which I made they had two e-matches in and
that was a pain! So I'm thinking slightly different. Now this is a glow plug, it's just
come out of a diesel car, and if we put the battery across these, it basically just starts
to glow! So as we put our fuse around there, we use a little spring to hold it into position
and then of course you put the battery on and it lights! Fantastic! That is going to
be a lot easier, so we can just put them in, stab them in, put some springs over, bosh!
We have an ignition system and then we just need either a load of batteries and a load
of switches or a chuffing great battery and one mega switch! Right this all works good, fuse clamp works
well. I'm happy but we need more don't we! We need to mount these, on the back here somehow,
so we can just slot them in when we replace them and then of course two ooking rockets
down the side and then some sparky bits, then we'll give it a test and see how badly the
back of my head might get burnt! OK we're ready to test, I've made this wonderful
box, that looks like something that's come out of a torcher machine, excellent! Now if
you want these glow plugs on you just flick this switch up, turn the thing and then oh
it comes on, it gets hot, boom! You can do that with all them, or because you can turn
the thing, flick the hole up, the whole lot will go, excellent! Right, now I'm not going
to stick this on my back yet of course, just in case there is a horrendous issue with it
and the whole thing blows up, so I say we take it up the field load it with fireworks
and give it a test. Right we've got surrogate furze set up, first
off we're going to test these back row ones, I've not put them all on we're going to test
the uh, thingies, with a quick match and then we'll see if Colin would get destroyed! I think we're good, I think I will make a
head shield for myself just in case, but other than that she's good to go! oh, oh actually it's not as heavy as I thought
it was gonna be. Right got me switches, here we go! This is brilliant! I'd say that's a success! Yeah it was a success! I'm still in one piece!
Now, there's quite a lot of smoke but I can't really do anything about that and I'm looking
at it and I'm thinking, I think we can fit two more of these on here. So I suggest we
strap them on, then take it up and see what it looks like in the dark! So I've got four boxes of fireworks left.
What to do, what to do? Oh, I like that, that is definitely method
is, that is definitely me! Now of course thanks to Ubisoft and XBOX for sponsoring this video
Far Cry 6 is out on the 7th of October (2021) and it looks absolutely fantastic! There is
not just this multi-backpack, in the game, there is loads of other things, loads of other
crazy weird and wonderful looking weapons, vehicles, it all looks really cool. OK, we've
not finished there, no! Next video I'm gonna be making my own resolver inspired vehicle,
so a mode of transport completely made from junk and rubbish! Oh yes! Right see you there,
SUBSCRIBE! 