I recently received this question via email:
Hello there, Imagine we build a giant ring around the whole
globe, perfectly round, no ups and downs. What you didn't know is that i installed explosives
all around on each pole holding it up, and then boom. All the poles break at the same time. What will happen to the ring? Will it just sit there in the air? Or will it fall down? Will it start spinning like crazy? Best regards, Martin from Sweden. First off, Martin, that was sneaky. I cannot condone secretly installing explosives
on poles holding up infrastructure projects. Second, I have a feeling you might really
like the planet Saturn. And Third, fun question! The answer depends a lot on how strong the
ring is, but in general you've touched upon an idea called symmetry breaking. As you've realized, a perfectly symmetric
ring doesn't have any particular reason to fall or break in any one point! Like a perfectly balanced pencil, which way
will it fall? Anyway, if the ring is really really strong,
then it should just stay exactly where it is, "hovering", though that actually means
being held up by its own strength, because each part will be gravitationally pulled toward
the center of the earth, and since those forces are spread equally around the ring in a symmetric
way they’ll cancel out. Like how in tug of war if both sides pull
the same amount the rope won’t move). Now, if the ring’s not sufficiently strong,
it might buckle in places and become scrunched up, like the coins that my friend Dianna shrunk
by putting them in a very strong, very quickly changing magnetic field. It’s interesting to note that the properties
of circumferences mean you’d only have to take out a few meters for the ring to be small
enough to just lie on the ground. As for “will it start spinning like crazy”? I think you might be referring to the idea
that the earth is spinning to the east “underneath” the ring – well, I have a whole other video
about that, that you should definitely check out. Thanks for your question, and stay away from 