Dream of me! Hello everyone, I'm HANDONG of Dreamcatcher! Can you guys guess why I'm here today? I'm going to film my MV reaction of Dreamcatcher's R.o.S.E BLUE! It's my first time filming a reaction video so I'm a bit nervous Shall we play the MV? Why is it so beautiful? I really like the filter that's used right now
(Dongee likes the color of the MV) Very dreamy STOP! It doesn't seem like a concept Dreamcatcher would do
(Dongee feels slightly awkward seeing Dreamcatcher pull off this concept) Did they change their concept? I thought it would be something like Deja Vu Part 2 They're all so pretty Even JI U's eyes are pretty Ah, I knew it... I thought too simply...
(What is Dreamcatcher without concept) 5? (Thinking about the number 5...) (She wants to interpret the meaning..) So cool She's holding the gun That's GAHYEON! Such a cutie She looks very young here
(GAHYEON is forreal young, but she looks even younger) YOOHYEON! Wow that! What do you call that She reminds me of a character... Oh, like Conan! (from Case Closed)
(YOOHYEON resembles Conan) Cute! Why is she cute...? She's climbing up the stairs (Scared that something scary might appear...) Are they asleep? What kind of story is this? (R.o.S.E BLUE MV really gets you thinking) SIYEON! She's holding onto a cat? Is she holding onto me? ;) SIYEON unnie's voice is DA BEST SU A! Is she chained up? She wants to escape SU A unnie is acting
(Dongee is surprised to see SU A act LOL) Butterflies! Ohh did you see that eyes?
(Cheers to JI U's eyes!) Where is DAMI? (Here she is) What is this set?! She's rich (Dongee fell in love with this set) I love this scene Hurry up and escape!!! She's acting! (Nervous..) SIYEON's eyelashes are pink!! 
(Dongee caught SIYEON's pink eyelashes) Is she shooting them?! (Our leader would never do that!) NOOOO (Immersed) SIYEON looks so cool She's not even looking at JI U I think GAHYEON still has hope (Dongee's prediction) (Saddened at the anticipated story) They're back! Was that a dream? Beautiful (Sensed that something's wrong) (Shocked) They flew away as butterflies... Did they really die...? (Empathy to the max) JI U is so good at acting.... It's very tragic NOOO! So she's left alone.. Ah... (So sad...) They're awake now! What happened...? OMG... JI U...? (Interpreting...) (Understood the story) It's a sad story I didn't expect it to be this sad
(R.o.S.E BLUE MV was a sad story) The music video could've been even better with HANDONG in it Members FIGHTING! You guys are doing great Keep up the good work! ILY <3 