Hey, guys. It's Chelsea from
The Financial Diet. And today, I am going
to do one of my favorite and maybe one of your
favorite types of videos, and that is an "Ask
Chelsea Anything!" Whoo! It's been a long day. I'm kind of delirious. But that means I'm going
to be extra honest. So I threw it out to
Twitter this morning, and you guys came through. I've got tons and
tons of questions here, more than I
can ever answer. But let's just try to get
through a lot of them. And I'll do my best to be honest
and provide good information and advice. And you guys will hold me
accountable in the comments, I'm sure. So let's start out with
a fun and lighthearted one, which is "what is your
favorite cheapest/healthiest meal that you don't
get tired of making"? I love to make what I
call "city girl tapas." I don't know if I call it that. But anyway, it's
basically just I'll make myself a little board of
all different kinds of foods. Sometimes, it's
what I have around. But it's also just
the things I like. Here's a picture of a time
that I did it kind of recently. But basically, you
can just sort of pick out your favorite
easy vegetable dish. Have a little bowl of
hummus or some other kind of relatively healthy dip. You can put something
a little unhealthy on there, like some really
yummy cheesy popcorn or fries or whatever. And then you can also
have some good protein, maybe a little piece
of cheese or two. Anyway, the point is I feel
like making those little tapas boards for one is kind
of one of the best ways to feel like you're having kind
of a special moment at home. You can include a lot
of healthier stuff, like really yummy
vegetables in there, without it feeling like
that's all you're eating. And it's really fun to eat
while watching TV or movies or whatever-- so
definitely the solo tapas. Also, it's extremely easy. You just basically
assemble things on a board. "What do you think is the
most overlooked money advice?" "What do you think
falls through the cracks more than anything
else because it's boring, not sexy, no one
writes about it, et cetera? And on the flip
side, what do you think is the most
overrated advice?" Honestly, overlooked, especially
because it's boring/not sexy, though not because people aren't
writing or talking about it, would definitely be
saving for retirement. We speak to a lot of
young women especially at the events we go to. A lot of them are in
their late 20s, early 30s. And many of them
will say, I haven't started saving for retirement. And I know I should,
this, that, and the other. And these are women
who literally pay money to come to a personal
finance-themed event. So you couldn't get people
who are more in the mix. And yet they're even
still not really even understanding the process
to saving for retirement. Or a lot of times,
you'll just see people are like, I have my 401(k). I put money in that
sometimes, and that's it. But I think it's
really overlooked to save for retirement
because a lot of people just can't picture
themselves old. And on a darker
note, a lot of people are like, the world's
going to be underwater by the time I'm retired. Who cares? And my response
to that is always that the chances are
that society will still exist in its relative form
when you're in retirement. And you'll want to
have that safety net. And if it doesn't exist,
well, then we're all screwed. And your money is probably
entirely irrelevant, anyway. So it's kind of just a
question of hedging your bets. But not having any
plan for retirement or any really meaningful
money saved for it is definitely the
number one thing that even otherwise smart
people will overlook, for sure. "And on the flip side, what
is the most overrated advice?" It's got to be the
latte bullshit. A lot of people
make entire careers off of this really sort
of quasi self-help, like you stop spending
money, or your money is going to spend you! It's this very-- I don't know-- this very
just outdated approach to personal finance that kind
of imagines that we're all in the situations that we're in
because of just pure consumer decisions. And I think that's just,
A, demonstrably not true. But even if it were, there's
only so much you can cut out. And especially when it comes to
really policing every purchase that poor people make,
for example, like, why does that poor person have an
iPhone, it's like, well, A, in many cases,
that's statistically their only computer or
form of smart technology. But, B, for many of
us, having a smartphone is a pretty key element of
being gainfully employed and getting places
on time and having access to important
information or banking. Even if the person was
just playing Candy Crush, our obsession with policing
every purchase of people under a certain income
level or blaming everyone for every small luxury
they might indulge in is just really gross. We had an article a
long time ago on TFD by a guy I actually know
personally who went to Harvard. And it was about how he's going
to be paying off student loans basically forever. He's 40 and still very much in
the midst of paying them off. And someone took it to
their personal finance blog and ripped it to shreds and
was like, he has Netflix. He has a car that's only
10 years old, basically just policing every single
one of his purchases and basically painting
a picture of life that he could live
that is completely devoid of any joys or any
luxuries or indulgences that would allow him to pay this
insane debt burden slightly faster. And it's like, or maybe we
could interrogate ourselves about why we're all living
with these enormous burdens in the first place
and not overly focus on individual shaming to
a degree that doesn't even really help us. That's the overrated stuff. "What is the one thing
you're looking forward to in the next year or so
professionally, personally, New Yorkally, et cetera?" Well, TFD's going really
well, and we're moving into our own big office space. We've been in an
office in a WeWork for a long time, which is fine. But it's definitely
got its limits. And we're going to have a nice
big office with our own room to build out a set for a very
cool new thing we have coming. And that's really exciting. And it's really cool
to be able to do that. We're hiring people. That's really exciting. I just feel like I have
a really good life, and I feel like I constantly
have stuff to look forward to. And I can't pick out any one
thing that feels most exciting. But in some ways,
that in and of itself feels extremely exciting. Every day is awesome. "Best tips to get over the
guilt of leaving a job?" Fuck them. Obviously, don't burn a bridge. But we all need to
keep in mind that even the best job would throw
your ass to the curb if they needed to make layoffs. They do not care about you. A job is not a person. You don't have to
feel like you're breaking up with someone. You can feel like you are making
a positive career and life choice for yourself by
moving on to something else. And provided you leave the job
with a fair amount of notice and do your best to make
the transition a good one, you have nothing to
feel guilty about. "How's Mona"-- got a
lot of Mona questions. To be fair, I solicited them. I was like, ask about Mona. Mona's great. She was sleeping, so
she's probably not super happy about this. But-- [KISSES] Mona's perfect! She's wonderful. Whoo! Woo, woo, woo. "What is the absolute
minimum salary you would personally consider
livable for someone in NYC?" There are so many
factors to that. NYC is enormous,
and there are lots of places here where you
can live not for cheap, but you can definitely get a
much better bang for your buck living-wise than in the hottest
neighborhoods of Manhattan. So already, that
completely changes things. Whether or not you're living
with roommates or a spouse or partner really
changes things. Your lifestyle changes things. It's really hard to say. I would say, honestly,
if I'm answering this question in a not
politically correct way in the sense that, yes,
technically, any salary could be made to work and people do
live on less than this here-- but what I would consider to
be a comfortable salary in New York for someone starting
out would be $40,000, because you could live
in a reasonable choice of neighborhoods. You would definitely
need roommates, but you could have a reasonable
choice of neighborhoods to live in. You could go out a
few times a month. You could put
money into savings. You'd probably want to work
maybe one side gig a week or a month. But I could definitely--
would you agree with that? I'm asking my cameraperson
who also lives in New York. And that cameraperson is Holly,
by the way, Holly of TFD fame, if you guys know her. Yeah, people make
less than that. And you can, for sure. I moved here a little bit later. I didn't move here
straight after school, so I was earning
a little bit more. But you can make it work. But you have a tough life at
$30,000 or below in New York. I think $40,000 is
where you can really start to have a little bit
more choice and a little bit more financial breathing
room, for sure. "Oh my god, can
we just see Mona? We just said goodbye to my
beautiful 15-year-old dog this week, so
that's all I really need is some puppy time." Well, I've already brought her
out, but I'm bringing her back. We love your dog that passed. We're so sorry-- nothing
worse than a deceased pup. "How do you really, really stick
or want to follow a budget? Not in terms of the
budgeting technique itself, but deep down in the
heart and making it work?" You have to have
some real goals. I tried to make a budget before
I had real plans for my future or an idea of that future,
and it was just like, this just sucks. I can do less fun
things on a daily basis. And it didn't feel like I
was working toward anything. So making sure that
you know not just what your budget is but
why you're budgeting and what you're working
toward and what you're doing with that money
and really keeping track of making
progress on your goals and how far you're
away from reaching a certain savings amount or
debt payoff or some big purchase is really important because
otherwise, all you get is the downside of a budget,
which is less immediate fun. And you don't get
the upside, which is working toward these
really great goals. So have a better idea of what
you're actually budgeting for. "What did you think of
America's dad, Bernie Sanders, ending Tim Ryan's career?" Loved it-- hilarious. Also, I don't want to get too
into politics in this video, just because we've already
covered on other Q&As. But I love-- something that has
been great from Warren, too-- I'm a huge Warren fan, as well. It is so great seeing people
on that stage actually be like, actually, all Americans
deserve free health care, no exceptions, 100%, because
when someone's actually saying that, all
of the rest of them have to pretend like they're
bullshit middle ground that still leaves a bunch
of people not covered and still leaves a bunch of
people with crazy premiums, because they have to protect
the private insurance industry. It makes them look like fools. They can't get around it. They can't pretend like they're
all working for the same thing because they're not. And so I find it very
satisfying for there to be that sharp contrast-- love it. "Advice you would
give to someone who isn't sure they
want to go to college?" Don't, not right now. College is so expensive. Do not go to college unless you
are absolutely sure that you want to go to college, why
you want to go to college, and what the actual
long-term value of any investment you're making
in college is going to be. I cannot even tell you the
number of people I know who have gotten degrees that
they weren't sure they wanted to get, effing gone to law
school when they were not sure what they wanted to do. The amount of money,
the amount of time, the amount of energy
that that takes, it is not something that
should be taken lightly. Grad school should
not be a decision you make because you want
to delay finding a job. Or you should not
just go to college because everyone else in
your high school class is doing it, absolutely not. College is a very
serious financial choice, especially in this
country, and should only be pursued when you have a
real reason for pursuing it. Also, aside from the
financial reasons, you are almost guaranteed to do
way better in school, no matter what you're studying,
if you actually want to be there and know
what you're working toward, for sure. Also, community college-- I
went to community college. If it's good enough for me,
it's good enough for you guys. "Is it cheaper to rent
than to buy a house?" There are so many
variables in that question that it would be impossible
for me to answer. It's cheaper to rent a
home in rural Wisconsin, and it's more expensive to buy
a home in downtown Manhattan. We need to refine
some terms here. Generally speaking, though,
yes, on a day-to-day basis, especially for the first five
years that you own a home, it is almost always
going to be cheaper to rent-- again, depending
on where you live, depending on the market, are
there incentives to first-time buyers,
whatever it is that you may be working with. But depending on
where you live-- but in many cases, when
you combine property taxes, if you have things
like condo fees. There are all kinds of
fees that will come along with a mortgage
you're taking out. There are way more things
on top of just your mortgage that you have to consider
beyond just the raw number. So even if you worked
out that, let's say, your mortgage would be
lower than your monthly rent if you were to buy your
current location, that's not the full story of
what you're actually going to be paying. In New York, for
example, you could be paying thousands
and thousands of dollars a year just in condo
fees and property tax alone. So that's something to
definitely consider, that it's not just the pure mortgage. Another thing to consider
is that owning a home is a serious decision, in
terms of having to maintain and upkeep that home. Aside from any kind
of cosmetic changes that you might want to
make or structural changes you might want to
make to the home, when something goes wrong with that
home, that is now your problem. And let's say, for example,
you live in a bigger building. You have no choice but to
immediately fix those things, because you're putting
other homes at risk. There is a lot that goes in-- the level of responsibility and
commitment in home ownership is much higher than in renting. And obviously, also, when
you look at the potential to not stay in that
home long-term enough to see the financial benefits
if and when you did sell it, that's also a consideration. If you're going
to buy a home, you want to absolutely be living
there no fewer than five, but ideally 10 or more years. So that's a huge commitment
that not everyone can make, in terms of knowing
where they want to be. In many ways, it can be
not just more expensive, but a much bigger financial
commitment to own a home. But there are also
lots of reasons that could make it, in the
long term, a good decision. For example, while the
average appreciation year over year on a house may
not even follow, let's say, the market if you were to
put that money in a fund, you don't live in your funds. You don't live in
your mutual fund. You don't live in
your index fund. You're not going to be
using that investment in the same way. So when people try to undercut
just the pure financial value of owning a home by pointing
out that it doesn't appreciate necessarily as fast as
some people assume it does, there's also that to consider. You have to live somewhere. You have to have a home. So I could go on
about this forever, but I'll spare you guys. The long story short
is that owning a home is not always the
clear-cut better decision that people think it is. And especially in
the shorter term, you will almost
certainly pay more money for a comparable place in
a comparable neighborhood for some of the
reasons I listed. But in the longer term, it could
be the right choice for you. But it's not super
healthy or clarifying to think of it in terms
of just pure cost, because it's not a question
of which is cheaper. It's a question of
which is a better value for you in the long term. "How can I build up
my credit score?" Make payments on time. If you have the ability, raise
your credit limit on cards so that you're using less
of that available credit. Keep cards open so that you
have a longer credit history. Pay off any debts
you might have. Be responsible. Those are some good ones. Oh, we have a
question from my mom. I have a two-parter for you. "Why don't you, Marc, and
Mona visit me more often and stay longer? And is it true that
Mona loves me most?" First one is that we have jobs,
but we do come a lot, mom. Thank you. My parents live in
Philadelphia, for reference. We come a lot. We come twice a month. And the answer to Mona loving
you most is I don't know. It depends on how
many people are given her snuggles on any given day. But yes, she does love you very
close to the most, we'll say. "With some politicians
advocating for total student loan forgiveness and the
possibility of public service loan forgiveness
still on the table, should I invest windfalls or use
them to pay down student debt?" OK, this is complicated. I would not base day-to-day
strategic money decisions on the possibility
that a politician is going to enact
total loan forgiveness. I want that to happen. I think it's increasingly
likely that some form of that could happen. But making solid financial
decisions ultimately is about making the smartest
bets with the information that you have available. So I wouldn't necessarily
calculate that in your risk assessment, at least not until
we get a little bit closer to the period of that happening. For example, if we
elect, let's say, a president to office who is
advocating for student loan forgiveness, maybe wait until
there's an actual bill in play. And maybe wait until it
looks like it even has a chance of passing Congress. There are a lot of
steps between now and when we should
maybe be actively making financial decisions based
on that possible outcome. So that's that. But as far as public
service loan forgiveness, I don't know what you mean
by "it's on the table." But if that's something you
are considering pursuing, I would do everything
in your power to figure out whether or not
you are actually pursuing that. And if you are part
of the program, then it should impact
your decisions accordingly and very well may
increase the value of putting money in
the market versus just using it to pay down debt. But that's something that it
sounds like you don't quite have all of your personal
decisions totally lined up yet. And you need all
of the information you can get before you
make a decision like that, because choosing whether
to invest or pay down debt is a calculation. And it's going to be
different for everyone. If, let's say, you
have heavily subsidized loans that don't have
very high interest rates, it very well may
be smarter for you to invest some of that money. Or if you were going to
enter a loan forgiveness program, same thing there. But that is a true
calculation that you have to make based on real
numbers and real facts and not any kind of speculation. "What is your go-to
lunch to bring to work? I'm constantly
struggling to make something that's fun,
healthy, and not logistically difficult." Leftovers-- I'm like
the queen of leftovers. If I'm bringing lunch, it's
almost always leftovers. I have great Tupperwares. Pack it up right
after dinner when we're cleaning up the kitchen-- got my lunch ready to go. "If you weren't doing
the Financial Diet, what would be your
backup career?" I'd probably want to work
in the hospitality industry to some extent. I'm assuming this means I
don't work in media at all. Otherwise, it's working
at another publication, but that sucks. I love cooking. I love entertaining. I've worked in the service and
hospitality industries a lot and really loved
those experiences. I don't know that I ever
want to own a restaurant, but I could
definitely see wanting to maybe work in the boutique
hotel industry or something like that. I really love that
kind of experience, so definitely maybe
something like that. And maybe even as I get
older and maybe one day I could have-- I'd love to have a supper
club, where people just pay to cover the cost of the food. I think they're actually
illegal in some way because you're not
health board-certified. But anyway, so something to
do with making people smile. "How does the Financial
Diet generate revenue?" This video is brought to you
by the answer to that question. Two questions here,
a two-parter-- "what is your very honest take
on high-yield online savings accounts? And two, what is Mona's
most idyllic New York day?" Number one, high-yield
savings accounts are very useful for those more
medium-term savings goals. If you're saving up to buy
a home in a couple years, that's a good place to have
it, because it could be pretty risky to put that
money in the market for that short of a timespan. So I think they're very
useful for the right thing. Question two, "what is Mona's
most idyllic New York day?" Wake up. Hang out with me and Marc
while we have our coffee/tea. Marc doesn't drink coffee. We go to the park, a
really super long walk. Then Marc and I will go get
dinner somewhere or lunch, sitting outside. And she'll be on the
ground, and she'll get brought her
little bowl of water. And she'll get to
hang out with us. And then we walk home. And then we all cuddle on
the couch and watch TV. And she gets lots of bites
of people food, obviously, throughout this whole thing. "What motivates you to keep
expanding your business now that you have a strong income?" So I pay myself $75,000 a year. So I wouldn't-- that's
definitely a strong salary. It's the most money I've ever
earned, and it feels good. I live a good life. But it's not like
I'm like, that's it. I'm capped out. I can't earn any more money. So there's definitely
still a personal incentive. And because I pay myself
pretty low compared to what we take in, a
small portion of it, obviously, I'm incentivized to
grow the company financially in that way. But also, I'm not even primarily
motivated by my own salary. I didn't take a salary
for almost two years, and I was still super
motivated every day. I just really love
the work that we do. And I love being able to
work with great people and to pay them fairly and
to create this community and talk to you guys
about money and listen to you guys talk about money. I just love what I do. And I think I wish that
something like the Financial Diet had existed when I was
really, really messed up with money. And I'm glad to be able to
provide that for people who are at an earlier stage
in their journey now and maybe need to hear it more
than the average person or even people who just love
talking about money. I love being able to
create this conversation and be a part of it. So that definitely is
what motivates me more than my own personal salary. So yeah, I love TFD. And I can't see wanting
to do anything else for the foreseeable future. As always, guys, thank
you for watching. And thank you for sending
in your questions. And don't forget to hit
the Subscribe button and to come back every
Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday for new and awesome videos. Bye. 