- Oh hey there guys. So about a year ago I did
a video about the iPad Pro and how it works as a note-taking device versus paper notebooks and you guys really liked that video so I thought it was high
time to do another one. But, as an entrepreneur,
I believe in delegation. So, I delegated not just the editing, but the script writing and
research process for this video to my editor Tony.
- Woo. And I thought it was
only fair that you get to be on camera for this one because-- - Yeah, 'cause, you
know, I did the research. - Yeah, I think you actually
know more about this than I do. So, what we were originally going to do was a video breaking down what we thought were the top five or six
note-taking apps for the iPad, both for the Pro and the base model, and we're gonna talk a
little bit later in the video about how these two devices
are kind of different, but when you were doing the research you kind of found a clear winner right? - [Tony] Yeah, so like right
away I immediately thought that Notability had, not
only the most features, but it just felt really
good to use as well. - And that's actually kind of a departure from that original iPad
Pro note-taking video that we did where I used Noteshelf, and I think Noteshelf is a fantastic app and it's definitely one of the top three that I would recommend if you weren't gonna go with Notability but when we were doing the research, you brought up Notability,
I checked it out, and it is kind of hands-down the best app. - Oh yeah, definitely. - So, what we're gonna do in this video is break down five kind of
advanced note-taking tips for the iPad and we're
gonna use Notability as the example app here, but I do wanna note that
for most of these tips you can do either the same
thing or something very similar in other apps out there. But real quick, lightning run here what will be your top three
recommendations for apps for people who are not
gonna use Notability? - All right, so if you're
not using Notability, like Tom said, use
Noteshelf, that's a good one. You can also go with GoodNotes 5, which is another app
that I use intensively and as well as just the
built in Apple Notes app because that you can still
write and also type notes. - [Thomas] And it's the
only one there that's free, so that's worth noting.
- Yes, keep in mind, a lot of these, or actually all of them, that we're recommending are paid. - Yeah, but let's get into these tips starting with the first one, which is going to be to
use the magnifier tool. Now the problem I have
with writing on an iPad and I guess I have a couple of problems, 'cause honestly writing on
notebook paper feels amazing, but one of the big problems
is that I don't wanna have to constantly pinch-and-zoom to be able to write
within these lines here, and I'm not going to be able
to write legible text here. So a lot of these apps solve this problem by giving you a magnifier tool. And in Notability you
can just come down here, if you have the pencil tool active, click here and you get this little window where you can just create notes. So, I'll just go over here
and why don't I make a list of groceries not to buy later (laughs) And one of the things I
really like about this app is there's this little
blue area on the right and once your pencil goes into it it's actually gonna move the magnifier, either to the right, or it's
going to go to the next line if you're already at the right. And it's adjustable so
if you wanna have it here instead of here you could do that, so I'm gonna go there, or you can just hit one of these buttons to go over or down if
you want to manually. I haven't figured out how to make this like multi-column thing work so it's a little bit
of a pain but you know, let's just go with like porcupine needles. So, I mean already this is like, again it's not as good as
writing on paper for me, but this is kind of a nice experience and I think with some of the other tips we're gonna talk about, the slight trade-off in convenience might be worth it for some people. - Yeah, definitely, I mean again, it's not gonna replace paper but a lot of these
features actually adds on to the fact that you're using
an iPad as opposed to paper. So we're gonna move on to the second tip which is being able to do audio recordings as you're writing your notes and have the audio match the
notes that you are writing. So up here on top-- - This is like my favorite feature. This is the game changing feature, specifically with Notability. - [Tony] Which is amazing, so
we're gonna go ahead and click this little microphone up top.
- [Thomas] Boop. - [Tony] And it's gonna start
audio recording everything that I'm saying or if, for example, as if your teacher was
saying if you got permission in class to do so. So we're gonna go and just
go ahead and start writing, so let's say we write a list of things you do wanna buy at a store-- - [Thomas] I'm gonna
keep going with my list of things that I don't wanna buy. - [Tony] Yeah go ahead. - 'Cause I don't know,
like I also don't wanna buy like poison, or I don't know, like maybe like Kenny Loggins box sets. (Tony and Thomas laughing) All right, so we're recording. Here's the thing about Notability, 'cause Noteshelf can record
and attach to notes as well and with any app you could
just record a voice note in the background and then
just look at it later, but with Notability, once
you're done recording your recording is actually synced with the speed at which
you took your notes. So if you go in here and you replay, it's going to show, "all right, now class I'm
gonna give you a list..." a little overlay and let me take this volume down just a little bit, but it's gonna show a, kind
of like, a grayed out version of what you took and then
if you tap on the text, it will skip to the
audio that was happening at the time you wrote that,
which is pretty amazing, because now you don't
have to scrub through like half an hour or an
hour of lecture material, you can just be like, "all
right, I can't remember "what the professor said at this point", or maybe, they were talking too fast, like I probably am right now, and you only got a little
bit of it written down. Well, you can go back in time essentially and see what they were saying and then you could fill out
your notes even more completely, which is kind of a game changer. Okay, so tip number three,
and I'm gonna use my hand that's not holding Apple
Pencil, if I was gotta like, There we go.
- I could do it. - There's three fingers, yeah. Tip number three is to
use the split-screen, multitasking features
in the iPad to bring up reference material maybe in a
browser or in a different app. So in this case I'm just going to, I guess, close out (laughs) So in this case I'm just
going to bring up Safari at the left of my notes. I'm gonna change the
screen size a little bit and now if I am, say
researching this article about how to, you know,
create a great study space I can do that over here and I can easily take notes over here, but that's not the coolest part. The coolest part is that
you can actually bring in text and images from whatever
other apps you are using. So if I wanna bring in this image here, I can just hold it and then
drag it in and there it is. And if I wanna crop it I
could, I could go to crop, I can, you know, maybe
cut it down a little bit. I could add a caption or
I can just move it around and I'm good to go. I could also highlight
actual text content. So let's just take a
couple of paragraphs here, do the exact same thing,
hold that down and drag it, then it becomes plain text. And now, this isn't gonna
work with your handwriting, but with images you can
actually move them around and do text wrapping so
you can kind of format your notes the way you want, which is not something
you can do on paper. Now one thing I liked about
Notability in particular that I didn't find in other apps was the ability to actually bring in GIFs. Some other apps would let you do pictures but they wouldn't let you do GIFs and you know, sometimes you
just wanna bring in like a Thanos GIF into your notes. That's very important, right? - [Tony] And then all
that for a drop of clout. - [Thomas] All that for a drop of clout. More importantly though,
I think, is the ability to scan in documents. Now I was thinking I was gonna have to use something like Scanbot
and then import documents myself like manually, but there's actually a
document scanning feature, so if you get a handout in class or you just have a piece of paper that you wanna put in your notes you can easily open this
and you can just create a document scan. - And with that we're gonna
go into tip number four of which is being able to drag from the left side of your note, and right here you can see all the notes that you already have
that was previously made and you can go ahead and
click-and-drag the notes and now you have multitasking
of being able to go from one note to the
other simply by clicking, writing on one, click on the other one and do the exact same thing. - And something that I
really like about that is in Notability, and this is something that is in Noteshelf and
some other apps as well, you can import PowerPoint presentations, you can import PDFs, so if you have reference material, if you have slides from your lecture that have been given to you ahead of time you could easily bring in,
say a PowerPoint presentation, have that on the left and
now you have the ability to mark up and highlight anything you want in your PowerPoint presentation. You can follow along in class, but you can also write in
your actual note document and follow along with your
slides, which is pretty sweet. Another thing that you can do is use this little scissor tool here and you can highlight pieces
of the PowerPoint presentation or really anything you want, copy it, and bring it over into your regular notes. And from there you can
add annotations, captions, you could put plain text next to it, do kind of whatever you want. And that brings us to our
last tip, which is to do... - All of it, do it all. - All of it at the same time,
which is a little bit easier on the Pro, I'm not gonna lie-- - Yeah, it really is. - But you can indeed
do an audio recording, open up the magnifier, have two
things open at the same time and still use iPad-level multitasking. So let's say you had a
really important piece of reference material that was in Safari, you also had class slides
that you were referencing and you still wanted to take notes, and you still wanted that audio recording, you can do all those
at the exact same time, which is kind of awesome,
I'm not gonna lie (laughs) - Yeah, and again, I'm following along and I'm using the smaller 7th Gen iPad that isn't as big as his, but I'm still able to keep up with his so the idea is you can
do so much with this app regardless if you're using older hardware and still keep up the
pace with everyone else. - So let's talk about the differences between the base model and the Pro. Obviously the Pro is a bigger screen, so it's more screen real estate, it's gonna be easier to write on, but you're gonna have to
spend a lot more money to get the Pro. Now this is my Pro and this base model is actually on loan from Apple
so we could do a review of it and we've got some other videos
coming in the near future. In fact you did a full review
of this on your channel. - Yes, so if you're interested, feel free. - And I'll put that in the
description down below. But yeah, what are the main differences besides just the screen space? - I mean, so in reality what
you're gonna be paying for is on this one as opposed to this one, is you're getting an OLED display on here. On the base model you're
also getting a processor that is three years old, so imagine having an iPhone
7 processor in this tablet. It's not horrible, so keep
in mind that no matter what though, Apple really
has a good reputation of having processors that last a long time and never once using this
did I feel like a hiccup there slowed me down. - Now I do have a screen protector on this which is called the Paperlike
and my friend Ali Abdaal is the one who told me about this thing. It's essentially a screen protector that tries to create a paper-like texture and I think it does a pretty decent job. Again, I would prefer to
write on regular paper but-- - I think we all agree with that, yeah. - This is, you know,
this is actually better than writing on the glass itself. Okay, I have to issue a small correction since we filmed yesterday. I've taken a lot more notes
with the Paperlike protector in Notability and
honestly this thing rocks. It is almost as good to me
as normal notebook paper and may make me take a lot more notes on my iPad going forward
so keep that in mind. Now one thing that I like to do on my iPad in addition to note-taking, and possibly even more than note-taking, is drawing especially since
there's an app on here called Procreate and I know
both of our girlfriends that use Procreate. I think my girlfriend
uses a different one now but I use Procreate on
occasion to make illustrations for this channel and I actually made one for the digital file organization video, which was a lot of fun.
- Yeah. - So Procreate is definitely
an app that I would get if I was going to be using
an iPad on a daily basis Thank you as well for watching, hopefully you found something useful here and if you haven't subscribed yet click the picture of
me that is over my face 'cause I think that's kinda thematic, I don't wanna cover your
face up with my face, and you'll get notifications, maybe, if YouTube decides to send
them when I release new videos. - For once.
- Otherwise you can check out one more video on this channel
by clicking right over here. I am gonna cover your face. - Yeah, that's fine,
whatever works (laughs) - (laughs) Also go
subscribe to Tony's channel and I will see you in the next video. - Take care. 