description. It’s tax season and so as long as you’re
American, watching this video when it first comes out, and choose to pay them wave one
final goodbye to your money! Now, a bunch of other countries also have
their tax filing deadlines around April too, but today we’re talking about America. Other countries just don’t make taxes fun. You see, for example, the entirety of Swiss
tax law fits into this measly 92 page document! I mean, what is this, a tax code for ants? The US meanwhile has this glorious, 3,837
page document chock full of rules, exemptions, deductions, and definitions and if I learned
anything in economics class, it’s that the best way to make people do their taxes is
to make it really really difficult and expensive… or was it the other way around? Who knows, but do we have examples of taxes
having weird consequences that we can make a video out of? Of course we do. What’s best is that the 3,837 page US tax
code is only the main document—there are plenty of other related ones like the 3,713
page Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States. This document outlines what percent tax is
levied on different products when they’re imported into the United States. For example, cross-country skis can be imported
for free while downhill skis are subject to a 2.6% import tax. Why? Because they said so! What’s on this document, whether a number
of 2% or 20%, has enormous, worldwide consequences that can make or break industries and economies. After that big worldwide war, the second one,
West Germany started to really like Chicken. European Chicken was expensive while American
chicken was cheap so west Germany bought a whole lot of American chicken but the West
German government didn’t like that. They wanted their citizens to eat European
chicken so the European farmers would be happy and so they implemented an import tax against
American chicken, and America didn’t like that. They fired back with this—a 25% tariff on
trucks under 5 tons. That devastated the import market for pickup
trucks and vans which especially hurt Germany given their focus on automobile manufacturing. Nowadays, if you live in the US, just pay
attention to how infrequently you see a small truck that’s not manufactured by Ford, GM,
or Chrysler. If you don’t live in the US, just take my
word for it, there are not many foreign pickup trucks. This number here is exactly why. It’s just too expensive to import foreign
trucks and this is all because the Germans taxed American chicken. But here’s the craziest part of the Chicken
tax. Ford, for example, despite being an American
company manufactures their Transit Connect vans in Turkey which means that normally they
would be subject to the 25% chicken tax as they are light trucks, but, Ford imported
all of these vans as Tourneo Connect Vans—a passenger variant with back windows and seats. Because of this, Ford only had to pay the
4% import tax on passenger vehicles but then, once the vehicles cleared customs, they would
remove the back seats and windows and convert the vehicles into cargo-carrying vans. Unfortunately, the Feds eventually caught
on and have started charging Ford the 25% tax for light trucks. At the point, I’d like to encourage you
to leave your full opinions on taxes, tariffs, and trade wars in the comments! I’m sure it’ll convert loads of people
to your political ideology and even better, its great for engagement! No matter how sarcastically I say this, people
will still do it. But let’s pick on another country for a
bit. If you’ve ever seen a building in the UK
that looks like this its because of taxes. Basically, the idea of an income tax was super
unpopular in 17th century Britain so they tried to raise revenue through other means. This didn’t always work out, but in one
instance they taxed windows. The idea was that richer people had bigger
houses with more windows so it was a form of variable tax—taxing more from those who
had more. Houses with fewer than ten windows paid two
shillings in tax, houses with ten to twenty paid six shillings, and houses with twenty
or more windows paid ten shillings so that led to all these people boarding up their
windows to get out of paying taxes. 