We spend a ton of time and energy studying the human body. Globally, hundreds of billions of dollars
a year go into health research. The vast majority of that research asks questions
broadly within the realm of physiology, or how our body functions. But discoveries in anatomy — or the study
of the body’s structure and form — still happen all the time. Like, even in the last decade — or since
2010 for our purposes — researchers have found multiple new body parts, including some
you could even see with the naked eye. Here are four of them. First, there’s the interstitium. And for you etymology fans, yep, interstitium
literally means “in between”. But in between what? Well, kind of everything. The interstitium is a sort of nebulous network
of fluid-filled compartments spread all around the body, but we didn’t identify it until
2015. Now, we’ve known about interstitial fluid
for a long time — fluid that isn’t inside cells, but between them. [interstitial fluid: fluid in between cells] And before finding this new structure, we
thought this fluid just kind of drained into the empty space between cells. But this discovery finally gave the space
itself some structure — and turns out, that might be more important for understanding
disease than we thought. Here’s how it went down. Around 2014 to 2015, doctors at Mt. Sinai
Beth Israel stumbled upon the interstitium while looking for signs of cancer in a patient’s
bile duct. That’s a tube that takes bile from the liver
to the small intestine. Using a really tiny microscope on a wire,
they were able to get a super close and precise view of the area. And they noticed that the spaces around the
bile duct were filled with connected, fluid-filled compartments, which was a total surprise. That’s because when doctors had taken out
this tissue in the past, they’d had to remove liquid from the tissue to look at it under
a microscope, so the tissue condensed on itself. But with this microscope on a wire, they didn’t
have to drain anything. Recognizing that this structure might be a
new thing, the team took biopsies of 12 more patients’ bile ducts and found that they
all had this tissue, too. And in fact, as they kept looking around,
they found more of this same tissue around different, compressible body parts, like the
gut, bladder, and skin. It was mostly fluid, but it also had tough
collagen proteins and flexible fibers. And this new tissue was the interstitium. As we’ve studied this network, we’ve started
realizing that all these new fluid-filled spaces might act like shock absorbers to other
organs. But also, we’ve learned that the interstitium
acts as a holding place for fluids en route to the lymphatic system, the system that moves
waste and fluid around your body. So, if cancerous cells get into the interstitium,
they might drain into the lymphatics and spread elsewhere. Which, well, would make the interstitium pretty
important to understand. If you’ve ever been putting in contact lenses
and accidentally poked your eyeball — or if you’ve, you know, just had a really bad
day and poked yourself in the eye — then congratulations, you’ve poked your cornea. The cornea is made of transparent layers of
tissue that protect the eye from physical harm. It’s a tough, resilient tissue that comes
in at about half a millimeter thick. But until recently, we didn’t know what
all its layers were. Like the Dua’s layer, which we identified
in 2013. In our defense, the Dua’s layer is especially
thin, coming in at only 15 microns thick. It’s thinner than some human hairs. Before finding it, we thought the cornea had
five distinct layers. But then, during some transplants, surgeons
noticed something new. So, during procedures like this, a surgeon
might separate the cornea’s big, middle layer, called the stroma, from a thin, deeper
layer called Descemet’s membrane. And to do that, they might use the Big Bubble
Technique. It involves injecting bubbles between Descemet’s
membrane and the stroma to delicately peel away the desired tissue. With bubbles, surgeons are able to take out
only what they need and leave everything underneath untouched. And aside from being delightful to say, Big
Bubble also leads to fewer transplant rejections. But during some of these procedures, some
surgeons noticed separation of the deepest layers of the stroma. And they wondered if this was just, like,
a delicate part of the stroma or something new. So, researchers from the University of Nottingham
collected 31 human eyes from cadavers and performed mock transplants on them. They separated the layers of the cornea with
air bubbles like they normally would. But by using even tinier bubbles, the team
was able to peel away this new layer. Then, they followed that up with a super powerful
electron microscope to study it in further detail. And yep, this was a new piece of anatomy! Today, we know that this layer — the Dua’s
layer — is mostly collagen, which makes it tougher than some of the other layers. And that’s actually really helpful for us. Because of its toughness, surgeons can inject
their bubbles between the stroma and Dua’s layer to prevent anything underneath from
tearing. Hopefully, this will help us improve the quality
of corneal surgeries and transplants going forward, especially for surgeries on the deeper
part of the cornea. Next are the trans-cortical capillaries. These capillaries are extremely thin blood
vessels found in long bones like the femur, and they help transport things like stem cells
between the bone marrow and outside of the bone. Specifically, inside that bone marrow are
stem cells calls HSCs, which can mature into different types of blood cells and different
immune cells. And on the outside of the bone, you’ve got
a tissue called the periosteum, which wraps around the bone and has plenty of blood vessels
that hook up to the rest of your bloodstream. Somehow, those stem cells need to get from
inside the bone to the periosteum and into circulation. Prior to this discovery, we knew that there
were a few blood vessels at either end of the long bones that moved blood in and out
of the marrow — at least, in mice. But there was a problem. Past experiments in mice had shown that cells
from the bone marrow get into circulation more quickly than what you’d expect if they
only used those vessels we knew about. So there had to be something else going on. Some previous studies had found extremely
tiny holes in the bone that might act as a path between the marrow and periosteum — holes,
like, 10 to 20 microns wide. But they didn’t find blood vessels. But thanks to some newer imaging technology
like X-ray microscopes, the researchers were able to track them down. In a study published in 2019, researchers
used a three-dimensional scan and saw that the holes in the mice bones went all the way
from the outside of the bone to the inside. But more than that, they also saw tiny blood
spots around the holes. And that implied that blood vessels ran through
them. Now, like we’ve said loads of times, mice
are not humans. You might notice that we have pretty different
anatomy. So, next, this team looked at images from
human surgeries, and lo and behold: They found little bleeding spots where they suspected
our capillaries to be. They also followed that up with a different
imaging technique and saw little canals in human shin bones, and blood vessels similar
to the mice’s. Except, the canals in the human bones were
much wider because, you know, we’re a little bigger than mice. That was the evidence they needed to confirm
that trans-cortical capillaries also exist in us! Now, that’s great for our general understanding
of our bodies and all, but this discovery also came with some big implications. See, the researchers also noticed osteoclasts
in the middle of these canals in the mice. These are cells involved in bone remodeling
— an ongoing process of building and trimming bone. And this made the research group think that
these canals and blood vessels are linked to bone turnover, and keeping bones strong
as we age. As we get older, the number of mature bone
cells we have declines, which makes our bones weaker and more likely to break. Maybe not coincidentally, we now know that
we also have less of those trans-cortical capillaries as we age. The researchers think that losing the capillaries
may be one of the factors that predisposes us to fractures as we get older. So future research may look into preserving
the capillaries to help heal fractures. Finally, your brain has a lymphatic system,
little vessels that help transport waste and immune cells around your body. And while that might sound like a given, we
didn’t know this for sure until 2015. Which says a lot, considering how many studies
we’ve done on the brain. The conventional view said that any waste
products the brain made would flow into the cerebrospinal fluid before being moved to
the bloodstream. But over the years, a few experiments made
scientists question if maybe the lymphatics were involved after all. Like, in 2015, by sheer coincidence, two separate
labs found lymphatic tissues in mice brains — specifically in the dura mater, a tough
layer of tissue between the mouse’s brain and skull. So if these brain lymphatics showed up in
mice… well, hey, maybe they existed in us, too. Historically, imaging techniques make blood
vessels and lymphatic vessels look similar. But in 2018, thanks to new imaging and staining
technology, we could finally get a more precise picture of the lymphatics in living bodies. That year, researchers published a paper about
an experiment they did on monkeys and human volunteers. In the experiment, the subjects were injected
with a special dye-like substance. The dye molecules were tiny enough to leak
out of blood vessels and into any sort of potential lymphatic system, but they were
still too big to travel to the rest of the brain through the blood-brain barrier. The hope was that, if the human brain did
have a lymphatic system, we’d be able to find it by following the dye. And we did! Using a special MRI, the researchers saw the
dye had pooled into a network of vessels that sat next to the blood vessels in the dura. Then, to be sure, they repeated the imaging
with a similar substance that doesn’t leak out of blood vessels at all. And as expected, they didn’t see the new
lymphatics. Finally, to really confirm what they were
seeing on MRI, they autopsied some brain tissue and found cells and proteins that were unique
to lymphatics. Now, this is a big deal because it means we
need to rethink how normal brain and lymphatic physiology work. But by understanding that, we can hopefully
come up with better treatments for neurological diseases. For instance, something like Alzheimer’s
disease has a lot of moving pieces — one of which is the buildup of certain proteins. We know from mice studies that lymphatic activity
slows down with age, which means they won’t be able to clear some of those harmful proteins
as efficiently. So if we can keep track of someone’s lymphatic
activity in their brain, we could spot Alzheimer's disease in that person before it becomes problematic. Or at least, that’s the hope. That’s what makes new discoveries in anatomy
so exciting! Whether it’s a network of vessels or a whole
new organ, each of these new body parts represents a new opportunity to advance medical research. The anatomy itself is cool, but what we do
with this new body of knowledge, pun very intended, is the exciting part. 