This train should not exist, and, if were
up to the train company, it wouldn’t, but it’s not. You see, in the UK, trains work off a franchising
system where the UK government awards contracts to different private companies to
operate rail services. For example Virgin Trains East
Coast operate the east coast route, ScotRail operates most trains in Scotland, TransPennine
express operates many trains to and from Manchester, and there are about two dozen other
operators, but this particular train that shouldn’t exist is operated by Chiltern
Railways. They
mostly operate trains to smaller towns between London and Birmingham and all of their trains
to London terminate at Marylebone station…
except for one—this one. This particular train
operates from the nearby London Paddington station—the terminus for Great Western and
Heathrow Express services. But Chiltern railways has to operate services
to London Paddington because this document says so—their franchise
agreement. This document is basically the
contract between the railway company and the UK government so to modify this document they
have to ask the government and, as we all know, sometimes governments aren’t very
efficient. So here’s your super simple guide to closing
a railway route in Britain. Step one: perform
a “transport appraisal.” This is basically an analysis of the effects
that the line closure will have on passengers, the environment, and the economy. The strait-forward three stage fourteen step
process of creating a transport appraisal is explained in this handy 35 page document
featuring this super user-friendly flowchart. Once you’ve completed that, just give it
to the UK Department of Transport who will analyze your
analysis. Step two: publish your proposal of
closure including the findings of your transport appraisal six months before the proposed closure
in one local newspaper circulating near the proposed closure and in two national newspapers
for two weeks continuously. Step three: open a twelve-week consultation
period including public hearings where anyone who disagrees with the
closure can protest. Once you’ve completed those
three easy steps, then you’ll hand everything over to the Office of Rail and Road who will
decide whether or not you can close the line. As you might have been able to tell from my
not-at-all-sarcastic explanation, it’s not easy
to close a franchised rail route, but nowhere in the agreement does it say how often Chiltern
Railways has to operate their route to Paddington—it just says they need to. So they operate it…
once per day. Now compared to the US where cities as big
as Houston, Texas only see three trains a week and have stations that look
like this, a daily service from Paddington probably
seems normal, but the station this service goes to, High Wycombe, sees 95 trains a day
from the normal London station—Marylebone. One train per day is nothing for a UK train
route, especially from London. Chiltern Railways, like many other train companies,
have decided it’s just easier and cheaper to operate an infrequent
service to fulfill their franchise agreement instead
of going through the rather expensive formal closure process. But some rail companies have pushed the boundaries
of what is considered “service” to an extreme. Northern’s franchise agreement requires
them to operate a train between Stockport and Stalybridge which they fulfill by running
one train, one-way, once per week. Between
Stockport and Stalybridge there are two stations which are therefore serviced by one train
per week. Closing stations is just as difficult as closing
lines so they won’t do it. Denton station
therefore recorded only 144 passengers in the past year while Reddish South saw just
94. Thirty
miles to the north, London Midland is required to operate services to Barlaston Railway Station,
but companies are allowed to temporarily operate rail replacement buses during maintenance. This company, however, has interpreted “temporary”
as 13 years as they’ve operated rail replacement busses to this station since 2004
to fulfill their obligation. The Chiltern Railways service from London
Paddington to High Wycombe is definitively unprofitable. On many days there are zero passengers. On the day this footage was filmed, there
was only one. This bureaucratic closure process is meant
to protect the public by preventing companies from closing unprofitable smaller
stations, but in reality most of what is does is make
these ghost trains. 