Okay, so Lex Luthor, Lana Lang, Lois Lane, those are the easy ones. But then, there's Lori
Lemaris, Letitia Lerner, Lyla Lerrol, Linda Lee,
fricking Linda Lee, which brings us to Kyptonian names like Lara Lor-Van, Leslie Lar,
the entire hose of El, and the symbolism that evokes. Ah! Oh, how you doing you wonderful nerds? Scott here. I think I'm on to something. I'm not sure if you've noticed, but the letter L is strangely interwoven throughout the Superman mythos. It's as much a part of his literary legacy as his iconic costume, or
the famous curl in his hair. Now, you might think that the letter S is the more critical
character seeing as how it's right there on his chest, but nope because the writers came along and said guess what that S has been
a secret L this entire time you nerds. So, what's the deal here? Why are Superman's
legends liberally littered with this lone, lurking letter? (heart beating) What do you want? What do you long for? (dramatic music) So, according to Larry Tye the author of Superman: The High-Flying History of America's Most Enduring Hero, the double L naming was a signature move for Superman's creators
Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster. That's where I would
point to them if I had them up on the board. They would name every Superman
character with two Ls. The pair even turned into a meta-game. Readers would write in
whenever they'd uncover a character's name had those signature Ls. As to why this became
a Superman tradition, there doesn't seem to be
one straightforward reason. It's not uncommon, in the medium, right? Alliterative names are a
staple of the comic book superhero industry. They're useful for characters targeted at young audiences because
they're easy to remember. Heck, they're useful for creators as well. We've already made an
entire video about how Marvel has so many
alliterative names because it helps Stan Lee keep all the characters straight in his head. At least, that was how it was
supposed to work in theory, not so great in practice. Go check out that video
when you get the chance, but outside of common sense, it seems like this classic
trope in the Superman franchise became one by complete chance. Which is... That's pretty unsatisfying, isn't it? Either way, this
phenomenon has been brought in the comics as well. Notably in 1968's Superman No. 204 In this story, a scientist
named Lorraine Lewis falls in love with Superman, and in her attempts to
court the man of steel she's bested continuously
by his other love interests, Lois Lane, Lana Lang, and Lori Lemaris. So, naturally, she
captures all three to bait Superman with a trap that
consists of two giant Ls that burst into flame, and ultimately, killed Lorraine. Hence the name of the story, The Case of the Lethal Letters. Even earlier, before this
comic, in issue No. 157, a story titled, Superman's Day of Doom, involved Kal-El receiving
a prediction machine which claimed that he would find himself in a snag and be saved by a pair of Ls. Later on, Superman comes in close contact with some pretty nasty kryptonite. As his life energy drains, he realizes that he has strangely been connected with loads of people with double L initials, and wonders which one of his many friends would serve as his guardian angel. Lois Lane, Lana Lang, Lex Luthor, even? But it wasn't any of them. No, Superman was saved
by a little boy named Steven Snappin. Wait what? How does that make any sense? Well, as Steven goes on his merry way, Supes notices the back of his shirt reads Little League. Double Ls. Bit of a stretch there Steven. Bit of a stretch. Wait a minute, Steven Snappin. That's two Ss. I wonder. Maybe we've been thinking
about this too literally. What if the heart of this
Superman L conspiracy is at the heart of Superman? Because an S is not always an S. - What's the S stand for? - It's not an S. On my world it means hope. - Superman may have been
given the name Clark Kent when he crash landed on Earth, but he already had a
name when he was a baby on his home planet of Krypton. His biological parents
called him Kal, Kal-El. His surname is, literally, El. That's what the S on his chest stands for. It's the family crest of the house of El. It's like one big family. He's Kal-El, his father's name is Jor-El, his uncle's name is Zor-El. You get it. But interestingly that
scheme doesn't apply to everyone on Krypton. Remember Zor-El from one sentence ago? Well, he had a daughter
that you may have heard of. - [Supergirl] My name is Kara Zor-El. I am Supergirl. - Supergirl's adopted
Earth name is, currently, Kara Danvers, even
though, it was originally Linda Lee because of course it was! But her Kryptonian birth
name was Kara Zor-El. Which you'll notice doesn't exactly have the same structure as Kal-El. This is because Kryptonian
names are determined based on biological sex. Male Kryptonians have a personal name hyphenating a house name, and female Kryptonians
have a personal name followed by their father's full name. So, Supergirl's father is
Zor from the house of El, making him Zor-El, and her Kara Zor-El. You can see this in
Superman's parents as well. As we already established, his father Jor is from the house of El, thus, Jor-El. While his mother Lara is
from the house of Van, and whose father's name is Lor, hence, Lara Lor-Van another double L. When will it end?! No, not when will it end. When did it start? I mean in early Superman
stories the S symbol wasn't much more than
the man of steel's brand. It didn't stand for anything much less a family crest. That idea didn't start
in the comics at all. It started right here. ("Superman Theme" by John Williams) Ah yes, 1978's Superman: The Movie. It's a good film, if you haven't seen it. I'm not usually one to
give in to nostalgia and say that movies in the past are better than movies today simply
because they're old or whatever, but Christopher Reeve is still my favorite live-action Superman. I don't even know why I
have to throw in live-action in there as a qualifier. He's just my favorite Superman, period. But more importantly, this is the film where we'll find more
answers to this L conspiracy. Specifically, on the
opening sequence on Krypton. This is the heartbreaking
scene when Superman's parents send him away to live on Earth as their own home world
collapses around them. What's interesting is what
we see on Superman's father. It's that iconic S symbol. You see, the original
screenwriter for the film, Mario Puzo, noticed that
Superman's logo didn't really mean much of anything
in the Kryptonia mythos, and he wanted to change
that for the movie. His original idea was
to make Superman's logo the official symbol of Krypton, representing the entire planet. That idea didn't end up sticking though. You'll notice that it's
really just Jor-El here who's wearing the symbol
during this part of the movie, and that's because, as the story goes, the actor who played
Jor-El, Marlon Brando, wanted an excuse to wear Superman's logo on his own costume even though he wasn't playing the man of steel himself. And if Marlon Brando says he wants to wear the Superman logo, you make that happen. You don't deny Brando. Thus, in later rewrites
of the script the immortal Superman logo was retroactively adopted as the coat of arms for the house of El. It stands for his heritage. It links himself to his ancestors. To his culture. And maybe not just his culture. Superman's creators, Jerry
Siegel and Joe Shuster were both born into Jewish families, and as you can probably guess, their shared upbringing bleeds into a lot of Superman's mythology,
including his house name, El. Now, I'm gonna be honest with you guys, I'm not super religious anymore. Sorry to my parents who are watching this. It's kind of an awkward
way to break it to you. Can't wait for that phone call. But I think it's absolutely
worth talking about the religious influences
that molded the man of steel. You know, for funsies. Throughout the Bible, the
suffix El is used a lot. Not only does El serve as one of the names for the big G man himself, which is pretty apt for a super man. You can also find it
at the tail end of many top tier biblical figures. Daniel, the beloved Jewish prophet of the Kingdom of Babylon, who interpreted dreams and received apocalyptic visions all while remaining faithful to his religion. Samuel, the celebrated
Jewish military leader, who's been described by biblical scholars as a predecessor to Jesus Christ. And Michael the angel, who
advocated for the Jewish people, and went toe-to-toe
with Satan on the battlefield. All of these figures are
peacekeepers, leaders, or combatants against otherworldly evil, and those descriptions fit
Superman's mold pretty well. Now, all this is speculation, of course. We don't actually know
if Siegel and Shuster, intentionally, made Superman's
birth name a reference to celebrated Jewish icons of the Bible, but the similarities are, indeed, there. And there's also the,
frankly, over discussed idea that Kal-El's origin story
also mirrors the upbringing of an all-star in Jewish faith, the sea-splitting legend himself, Moses. So, stop me if you've
heard this one before. Fearing the complete
extinction of their people, a parent sends their infant son traveling to a far away place where
he's eventually adopted and raised in an entirely
different culture, only to then grow into
adulthood and fashion himself as a leader aided by abilities
beyond that of a mortal man. Sounds pretty familiar, right? Moses is described as a figure of peace who brings the Jewish people
of Egypt out of slavery and into an exodus into
towards a kingdom of their own. He stands up to his fellow man, and with the power of the man upstairs, becomes a hero to his people. Moses and the house of
El, both represent hope. And like I said, while
we don't know for sure, it doesn't seem like a
stretch to think that Siegel and Shuster worked in
these references intentionally. From the initials of countless
supporting characters, to Kryptonian houses and culture, to biblical names and influences. The language of the Superman franchise come from all corners, and it may be impossible
to trace everything to a select few sources, but at the center of Siegel and Shuster's
character lies the legacy of a lonesome letter. But what do you guys think? Is there something to this L conspiracy in Superman's mythos, or, as always, am I just
reading too much into things? Or does it go deeper? (laughing) And of course, as always,
I want to give my genuine thanks to our patrons for
supporting these videos that we make, especially,
Cristoffer Lange, Everett Parrott, and Sonali Manka for giving
more money than you should, to be honest. I love you nerds, and if you want your name here on this ever-growing
wall of beautiful people, head on over to patreon.com/nerdsync. I've actually recently
changed around a bunch of our reward tiers to make
things more affordable, so you can get your name here for cheaper if that's something that you want. But if you're feeling exceptionally wild, hit that big sexy subscribe button. I'm not convinced that it
does anything these days, but it does boost my ego. And usually right here I let
YouTube's mysterious algorithm pick out a video for you to watch, but I want to, specifically,
recommend this one about Superman battling
the KKK in real life. Statistically, none of you have seen it. So, if you liked this video,
you'll really love that one. Thanks for watching. My name is Scott, reminding
you to read between the panels, and grow smarter through comics. See ya. 