- This was your idea, as soon
as this feature came out. When you tell the Tesla to
take you anywhere in Vegas, - [Dan] I think it's Leslie's
turn to go on a zip line. - No. - That has got to be the
nicest security man ever. - Here we go. (ethereal music) - Welcome to the Version 3 Superchargers in Las Vegas, Nevada. Today Leslie and I are here on a date. We want to go see the
movie "Ford v Ferrari", but we have a lot of extra
time here in Las Vegas. I don't know where we're gonna eat lunch, eat dinner, go to another activity, and we thought that it would be really fun to test out one of the new
features with the Tesla. Basically, it's a feature where you say, "I'm feeling lucky." Tesla decides our entire day. All right, are you sure
this is a good idea? - Yeah, I'm excited actually. I think it'll be fun. - This was your idea as soon
as this feature came out. We've been charging here at the Version 3 Supercharger for about an hour now. Time to get some food. Is there any food that you're like, "Oh, I hope we don't get that?" - I mean, I'm pretty open. I'm hoping for Chinese,
or Italian would be good, but the one that I don't
care for, as much, is Indian. - Ew. - I like Naan bread. I think I like Indian more than you like Indian, I would say. - Okay, so she doesn't want Indian food. I'm fine with curry, I love curry. But, I don't want sushi.
- Ooh! - Please Tesla do not
send me to a sushi place. - Yes.
- You basically go into here and you say navigate to,
and I'm super hungry, so let's go somewhere. And it wants us to go to Yard House. - It has great reviews. - Which is .1 mile away. We're at the LINQ charger right now. It looks like it's really close, and our car is almost done charging. We can't leave our car here for the next 25 minutes, or can we? Should we just leave it here?
- No, because I think it's incredibly rude when
people just sit their car there, and then the other people can't charge. - We are not gonna charge our car here because it's incredibly rude. We're gonna move it over to
the destination chargers, which they have here, to let it slow charge for the rest of the way. This is Las Vegas, she's got a pink flamingo on her head. (funky synth music) I don't know about this parking job. She's pulling up here. Instead of 25 minutes left, we now three hours and five minutes. That should be plenty for the Yard House. - Yes, plenty. - It turns out, there is this amazing area with all of these restaurants right next to the Version 3 Superchargers. You just have to go underneath the LINQ, the big old roller coaster
Ferris wheel thing. I didn't even know this place was here. But there are tons of restaurants, and the Yard House is
just one of them, so. First location, we didn't even
have to drive our Tesla to. It knew it was close by,
and we came right here. I have no idea what type
food the Yard House is, but we made it. (upbeat synth music) All right, thoughts? - I think this is perfect. There is football on that you can see. Is that why you wanted that chair? - Yes. Football and food. All right, let's see what
we can get at this place. I'm starving. Sweet potato pancakes,
fried chicken, pickles. And Leslie got some salad. All right, how would you rate your food at the Yard House?
- I'm gonna say the tortilla soup was a 9.5 out of 10, and the salad was a six out of 10. - I had hot, spicy
chicken and some pancakes. It was like some sort of Nashville meal with really good pickles. I gotta give it a nine out of 10. Thank you Tesla. This was a good choice I
would've never come to. Never. There's so many other places
around here I would've gone to. - Bathroom. Relief. - [Dan] Okay, see you. Good-bye, Yard House. Back to the car we go. And now, we are going to
go see "Ford v Ferrari" at the movie theater, and
I hope that it's good, because this last week,
we saw "Ford v Tesla", which was pretty controversial. I guess that truck was
only in two wheel drive, and his was an all wheel drive, and there was no weight in
the back seat of that F150. Ford was calling for a
rematch, then they recalled it. In 10 years, maybe we're
going to "Ford v Tesla" movie, but for now, "Ford v Ferrari". Okay, bad news. We have free Supercharging with our car, but in order to get this
Version 3 Supercharging, you have to pay $20.00 for this place. Maybe it's because we stayed
for over an hour and a half. - [Leslie] I hope so. - But still, what? (bell dings) Little disappointed, 'cause I
never pay for Supercharging, and I kind of just did. We are going to let the Tesla decide where we're gonna go to dinner, and what thing we're
gonna do after the movies, but for now, we're gonna go to Cinemark and catch a movie. We're gonna go see Ford v
Ferrari, give you our thoughts, and then see where the
Tesla takes us next to eat, and possibly an activity in Vegas that is, I hope, wholesome. - It will be wholesome. (exciting music) - All right. "Ford v Ferrari", thoughts. - I... Oh, sorry.
(beep) - [Dan] Thoughts. - I always like movies based on real life, so I loved it. I thought it was fun. - Yeah. Very, very cool story. It's based in the sixties. What are the movies gonna be
like forty years from now, when they're talking
about Elon Musk and Tesla disrupting all of the
mainstay industry leaders in the auto manufacturing world? I always like Matt Damon in movies. He's a great actor. "Bourne Identity" is one
of my favorite series. So, anyway, one thumbs up for me. - I think it... One thumbs, two thumbs? - [Dan] No, what's your thumb? You got a thumb, I got a thumb. - I got a thumb. - Okay, that's two thumbs up from us. One from me, one from her. I got her confused a little bit, there. All right, Tesla. (upbeat music) What is it? Fremont Street Experience. - That sounds cold, though. - [Dan] That sounds cold? - Yeah. - Well, it has 68,000 reviews, and the Tesla told us we have to go there. What's the Fremont Street Experience? I don't know, but we're doing it. Deal? - Deal. (bright upbeat music) - [Dan] Ever been to
Fremont Street before? - I haven't. This looks much older. - [Dan] This is the old part of the strip. The old casinos, and then
look up there, at the TV. Look at that. - That's really cool. - [Dan] There it is. That's where we're going. - What are we gonna do? Shopping?
- Fremont Street. I don't know. Let's park and go find out
what we're gonna do here. Well I can honestly say that
I would not have come here without the Tesla telling me to. It did not feel like the safest area to park my $100,000.00 car, but once we're here, it looks cool. Wow, that's a huge zip line that goes all through this LED TV. - [Woman] Out of Tesla videos! (upbeat music) - We're out at Fremont Street. It's a little cold. There's lots of lights, and there's a giant zip
line that is going across. I think it's Leslie's
turn to go on a zip line. - (laughs) I was afraid
you were gonna tell me I needed to do that. - I mean, it wasn't me that told you. It's the Tesla that told you to do that. - But, maybe it's telling
you, you need to do it. - Well, somebody's gotta hold the camera. Are you ready? Got your wrist band. You're gonna go 40 miles
an hour, Superman style. Super hero style, I should say. That's gonna be Leslie, right there. - I thought it was sitting upright. - [Dan] You're gonna Superman
it all the way through. You excited? - No. - [Dan] Oh, no. - I mean, it would be exciting if the kids were with me, but-- - [Dan] They're right
here. They're watching us. They're really proud of you right now. - It's really random
for me to just do this. - [Dan] Super proud of you. Superwoman. - I look really funny - [Dan] You have to yell the loudest "Superwoman" of your life. - Okay. - [Dan] Okay, honey. I'll see you at the end. Have fun.
- Bye. - She is incredibly nervous. If it wasn't for the Tesla
and a little coaxing from me, she wouldn't be doing this,
so kids, this is for you. - [Leslie] I can't believe
people are paying for this. - [Operator] Want to get
it on your fellow's video? I will. - [Leslie] Yeah. Do it. - [Operator] And you
can put it on YouTube. - [Leslie] It is on YouTube. (whistles) (Leslie laughs) - [Leslie] That's an intense whistle. (laughing) The wall goes down? Oh, my word. That actually is really scary. No. They don't even say 1-2-3. The didn't even say GO. It's just like they put the wall down and then you just went. Hey there, about to take my
phone away so here we go. Thanks Tesla for making me a
bit more adventurous today. - So hopefully I'll get the shot. This is really really long and good thing we have a
good zoom on this camera. But let's see how we can do here. (upbeat synth music) - Let's head over there
(surprise sound) and see how she liked it. (laughs)
Tesla. - Hi. - [Dan] Survive? - I did. I laughed really really hard. It was actually fun. It wasn't as fast and scary as I thought. - [Dan] Okay. - And they were so much fun. - [Dan] Well I heard you
whistling from like the other end. - Did you? Yay! - [Dan] Yes!
- I'm famous! - All right, I think we've had enough of Fremont Street Experience. It definitely was an experience. More so Leslie than me. I enjoyed watching her
do something super silly and out of her comfort zone. We would not have come here if it was our normal date in Vegas. Now I am going to ask it
to take me somewhere warm that has yummy dessert or hot chocolate or something because we're
getting kind of hungry. It's late and we also need
to find somewhere to stay. I don't know if it does
that. Does it do hotels? We are so cold. It is so cold in Vegas in the winter. If you are going to come
here probably not the winter is the best time, because it is cold. One thing that we have learned is that when you push the button, it picks somewhere that's
really really close to where you are at. And while Fremont Street
Experience was really fun, as far as dining goes, that's not really the
area I want to be in. In a way we are kind
of cheating right now. We are still going to go
where the Tesla tells us to go but we are driving down the Strip. We're going to get close
to ARIA and Cosmopolitan and some of the hotels
that we really like. And then we're going to say "hungry" and hopefully it picks a good place that we haven't heard of before. And we'll go somewhere unique. (game over sound) - [Dan] Chili's - [Leslie] No. - Tesla, Chili's? We're in Vegas. - [Leslie] Come on. - What do you think? We're
not going to Chili's. I like Chili's, but
not when I am in Vegas. (synth music) We're pulling up to the valet in ARIA where hopefully there is something-- - [Leslie] Cucina by Wolfgang Puck - [Dan] Cucina by Wolfgang Puck - Done. We're Going. - [Dan] Is that it? Cucina by Wolfgang Puck? - Yes. - [Dan] Let's do it. - I want to wear my heels. - This is one of my favorite
places to go is ARIA. The place we are going to
eat is through the ARIA at the little mall that they have here that has all the fancy stores. (upbeat music) - Okay. Cucino Wolfgang
Puck. You good with this? - Yeah, might just do,
maybe, dessert or something. - [Dan] Just dessert? - Maybe. - [Dan] All right let's
go see what they got. - Holy Christmas balls. - [Dan] Holy Christmas balls? Is what you just said? Why? - Did you see that tree? - [Dan] Oh, you mean the
giant tree that's huge. - That's all I thought when we sat-- - [Waitress] Hello (mumbles)
welcome to Cucino today. - [Dan] Great. You see those water fountains
that are down there. They are really cool, it's
like, the water spins. Our first ever YouTube
video on this channel, we went there with the kids. - That was our first video? - [Dan] Do you remember? It was right down there. - What was the video about? - [Dan] It was the Coldplay concert. And we walked through there. - My eye instantly started
watering when you said that. That was one of my favorite videos. Lincoln was so joyful, most
joyful little 8 year-old. - This is literally the
corner of the hotel. - So that was one of
our first videos we did on our family channel. We went and got dessert at a
good, I think, milkshake place over at the Cosmopolitan,
which is right through here. Tesla, hopefully you
didn't lead us astray. This place is not very busy. Butternut squash soup after
the cold day that we've had out there at Fremont Street,
that sounds pretty good to me. (upbeat music) - That has got to be the
nicest security man ever. He is sitting there
taking everybody's photos. He is incredibly nice. He's even going up to people, and like "Hey want me
to take your picture?" - He's so cute. Does it with a smile
and he actually cares. He does vertical, he does horizontal. I think we need to go talk to him and give him a little something. There's Starbucks right there. - [Dan] Starbucks, okay. - [Leslie] Let's go get him
a Starbucks gift certificate. - [Dan] Butternut squash soup. A little pizza to go with
our butternut squash soup. All right Cocina at
Wolfgang Puck, not bad. It was actually delicious,
we're inside of a mall. Now, the next stop is
going to be Starbucks. So that we can get a gift
card for this security guy. Oh my gosh! They don't sell gift cards at Starbucks. What the heck! We have twenty dollars in cash. If he takes our picture
and then we give him money then he's going to be like "I shouldn't be here to
take people's picture and make money." So we are not going to do a picture. I'm just going to have Leslie
go up and give him this. I'm going to film from afar. - [Leslie] So awkward. - [Dan] Hey L, you got it? - Yes. - Leslie is so awkward
right now, by the way. This is an uncomfortable thing For her to just go up and give him money. I understand it but I'm trying to let
her do hard things today. First, the zip-line and now this. Is he going to take it? He's taking it. Yes. He's so nice. Merry Christmas security man! What did he say? - He took it, which was really great. - [Dan] I saw that. I was surprised. - His name is Dax and at the end he goes "Would you like me to take your photo? Do you have a camera I can take it with?" And I said "No." And he goes "Well it's a
pleasure to serve you." Since I said "Thanks so much
for being so kind to everybody and doing it nice." - [Dan] Yeah. - He goes "It's always a
pleasure to serve you." - [Dan] Oh my gosh. - He's so cute. - He's so nice. It's been a really fun night tonight. We are at the Version 3 Superchargers back to where this whole video started and we still, honestly, do not have a hotel room for tonight. Navigate to, lucky. I feel lucky. The Venetian! Is that nice enough for you? - Yes! - [Dan] The Venetian! Okay Tesla's sending us the the Venetian. Thank you, Tesla. How much does it cost? - [Leslie] I don't even know. - That's the next question. I'm going to look right now. $118, 75% off. - [Leslie] 75% off. - [Dan] Usually $479. - [Leslie] Yes! - [Dan] Five star hotel, really?
That's a pretty good deal. - [Leslie] That is a good deal. Go for it. - [Dan] $30 tax and fees. - [Leslie] Of course. - [Dan] Hotel fee: $50. So $199 total. - [Leslie] That's like
double the price almost. It was $118 and now it's $200. (energetic music) - All right welcome to the Venetian. Very nice bed and it's like a suite. It has a couple of steps
that go down to the sitting area with a couch,
a little office desk, and even a dining area. Thank you, Tesla for choosing our day. It was a pretty fun way to spend the date here is Las Vegas. And now we get to end it
in a beautiful hotel suite. That I wouldn't have chosen this hotel, but now that I'm here, it's really nice. And the price is pretty good. I think with everything with the fees it ended up being $186. There was a $50 resort fee or something and then they have free parking, which a lot of the places don't have free parking these days. So yeah, we're here. Let us know if you want to see more videos of us letting Tesla choose our day. And thanks again to Cinemark
for sponsoring this video. See you. (Upbeat music) I think there's Chewbacca
behind me, by the way. Right now you can see him. We've seen some interesting things here. Somethings that I'm not
going to put on camera, because I really want it
to be family friendly. Superchargers and
somebody lost their belt. - I went to the wrong car. - [Dan] Did you go to the blue one? - I went to the white one. - [Dan] Oh, okay. (laughing) - [Dan] The other white one - [Leslie] They had
treats in the front seat. - [Dan] Lucky. Axehole. - [Leslie] Axe throwing. - [Dan] No, we don't need that. - [Leslie] Ax throwing? - [Dan] We don't need to throw...
Do you want to throw axes? - What?
- [Dan] People throw axes. - What kind of restaurant is that? 