- What's up everybody? Peter McKinnon here and today
it's a beautiful day outside, but we're talking about setting the tone. It's the second video
in our ongoing series of stepping up your filmmaking and, ooh, I am excited, happy that you're
here, happy that I'm here, and happy that it's a
beautiful day outside. Roll intro. (heavy guitar music) Pete, you might be asking, what do you mean by "set the tone?" Well, I mean this,
essentially setting the tone is your first impression. (upbeat hip-hop music) When someone goes to a theater, when they watch something
on the internet, on Netflix, on TV, the first couple scenes,
the first couple minutes, even seconds of that
piece are going to set the groundwork and set the
tone for how your viewer is going to feel emotionally,
connection they have to it, the mood, all of those
things are portrayed in the very first moments
of watching anything online, or in the theater or on TV. So we want to make sure
that we set the tone to accurately depict
what it is that we want portrayed through the screen. Frame rates, sound, music, color, light, all of these things are
what we need to take into consideration, to keep
in mind, to plan beforehand so that we know exactly what we wanna get, how to capture it and how to convey that. Okay, let's talk frame rates. How does a frame rate set the tone? How does it create a tone? How does it make someone
feel something different just by changing the frame rate? I'm gonna show you a sequence
of clips that was shot at 120 frames a second,
and then I'm gonna show you that same sequence at 24 frames a second. I want you to visually see, without audio, without any music, what the difference is, how it makes you feel. Think about those things, okay. Here is the 24 frames a second clip. Okay, say nothing, keep those thoughts. Here's 120 frames per second. Okay so you've seen both frame rates now. How do they make you feel? 24 frames a second and
the 120 frames a second. The 120 frames a second feels
a little more cinematic, as we've talked about before, it's a little more slow, methodical. The 24 frames a second feels
a little more like okay, something's gonna happen and something's gonna happen quickly. Like this is going somewhere faster. Whereas the 120 one you're
like "eh this is slow" might be a bit boring, there's no audio, there's no music, what
are we trying to say? So just already by you
watching the same thing in a different frame rate, it's already communicated to you a different feeling. So when you're shooting something, you're thinking "I want
something to be really intense "and I wanna catch people's
attention right away." Well, chances are you're
gonna want to shoot at 24 frames a second to do that, now that you've experienced both clips. If you really want to convey
stress or speed or intensity, you're gonna shoot at something
like 24 frames a second because you want it to be fast, you want those cuts to be quick, you want those clips to
come in and come out, and not give people time to really understand what's going on. You want to use that shaky cam technique and you want to run with the camera. You don't need it to be
as stabilized because you want it to feel raw and gritty. All of these things come in to play. Here's an example of my
friend running from one end of the bridge to the other
and grabbing his backpack. And we just shot this
at 24 frames a second, I just ran holding my
camera, no stabilizer, but you'll see how that shaky camera conveys a very stressful,
intense situation. Okay, so let's talk about sound. How does sound affect the tone? Now sound is very interesting. Your brain actually processes
the audio before the visuals. I think I've told you guys that before, so that's why you hear a
lot of people say sometimes "oh audio's more important"
because even though you're seeing something, if you're
not hearing what you're seeing, there's a disconnect,
there's a miscommunication between your eyes and your
ears, hearing and seeing. They need to work in tandem. So if we just hear the footsteps and then we hear the wind blowing and cars honking and just the overall atmosphere, that just helps
inherently, subconsciously, fill in the gaps and tell a better story, which also helps set the tone. Music is a huge contributor to the tone. We can take that slow-mo clip,
play it with some sad music. We can play it with some epic music, we could play it with some
hip-hop and you're gonna feel three different things and we're gonna set three
different tones straight off. Here's an example of that. (somber hip-hop music) Pretty sad, kinda lonely, the sad music goes with the slow-mo. It's kinda sleepy and
you're like "oh, all right." Let's change it up a bit. (triumphant music) Ugh, totally different. It's like epic and way more substantial. Those clips, each clip
means something different when that music is building. We've set a completely different tone and made a completely
different mood change. People are gonna feel
totally different things when they watch that versus that. Okay, remember that clip of
my friend running through the bridge with that shaky camera? Now let's try that with some intense music to pair that shaky, intense camera shot with some intense music. (tense rock music) Okay, I'm gonna stop it right there. Let's add some sound into this clip, maybe some sirens and a police scanner. (tense rock music)
(sirens wail) Can you see now how the layers are adding and it's become more and
more and more, right? So we shot at this intentional
24 frames a second. We intentionally ran to make that camera shaky and add that stress. To match that stress, we
put in some stressful, intense music that has a
very high beats per minute. Now we put in some sound effects, some sirens to go with that stress like someone's being chased. We put in the police
scanner sound effects. All of these things have
now created this clip that really does set
the tone so much better than it did before we
had any of those things, and that's because we thought
about the different aspects. We thought about those
things before we shot them and we went out and got
exactly what we needed to get. Point number three, how
does light affect the tone? Well, take a look at the
scene we're in right now. I'm in the living room,
it's nice and bright, white and clean and
happy, but if I do this, now I'm in a cold room. How different does this look? How different does this feel? Now we're surrounded by concrete, it's way more lifeless, it's way colder. It's a completely different vibe, it's a completely different tone. If this whole episode started like this. What's up guys, Peter
McKinnon here and today we're talking about how to set the tone. Different things in your
videos that you can do to pull up different
emotions from your viewers. Hope you guys enjoy it. Ugh, horrible! It's so boring and
uninterested and depressing. Look where I am, such a stark difference, just in my inflections, just in where I'm standing, how I'm lit, you go back at watch the
intro from the beginning. What's up everybody, Peter McKinnon here and today, it's a beautiful day outside, but we're talking about setting the tones. It's the second video
in our ongoing series of stepping up your filmmaking
and ooh, I am excited. We've set the tone completely different. This is gonna be a fun video,
I might learn something here. Opposed to what that was. You're gonna be like
"how long is this video? "nope, not sticking around." Okay, point number four,
we're gonna talk about color. How does color affect the tone? Well that kinda comes
in the color gradient. It's very cold outside
when we shot that B roll, so in turn, I kind of dropped
those cool temperatures a little bit more towards the blue side to really get through
that it feels and it looks like it's cold outside. Look at this footage I shot the other day at the beginning of my Q&A. I was out in the middle of a frozen lake, it was windy, super snowy and frozen. It looks super cold in this footage. It's also a little bit blue. Now, let's just crank that
temperature to the right, make it way warmer and
just see what that does. It does not look as cold at all. If you're watching this
footage you're like "yeah, it's snowing, cool it's slow-mo." You don't feel cold
while you're watching it. Now if we drop that temperature back down, this looks more like
winter, this looks colder. You physically feel like
ooh, that looks cold. You don't have that thought when you're watching it with a warmer tone. Same thing with the shots over Toronto. The warm tone adds more life to the city, the cold tone takes more
life away from the city. If you're looking at me
right now I snap my fingers, now I'm a little more warm. The scene feels different, opposed to me being a little more cold. Maybe I wanna up that
contrast a little bit. All of these little color
adjustments are gonna change how you feel while
you're watching me speak. So point number five is
that you need to think about all of these things before
you shoot something. What is my goal in telling this story? Am I trying to drive home a point that I'm really passionate about? That I think needs to be addressed
in a very intense matter, then that is how you need to set the tone. You need to take the proper
steps to set that tone. Maybe your video is
just a thank you video, you want it to be loose and fun, so you're gonna say "I'm
gonna shoot it nice and wide" a big wide-open space with nice light, it's gonna be happy music, it's not gonna be colored
too warm or too cold. I just want it to be neutral and relaxed, and that's exactly the mood
that's gonna be conveyed while people are watching that. So you need to know what you want before you start shooting. You're gonna get the best
results if you know what you want and you set out to do
it by setting that tone. When someone watches something and there's intentionality behind it,
it makes you feel good, like you know thought
was put into something. You know they shot that for a reason. You feel something for a reason. All of these things are
subconsciously communicated to your audience and
they feel better for it. It's gonna make people feel, and that's what we're trying
to do, that's the goal. And that's where I'm
gonna end it today, guys. Thank you so much for watching this video. I hope you learned something, and I hope you're inspired to go out there and think a little bit differently about all those different layers
and how they can help you make better videos. Okay, so hit that like button, don't forget to subscribe
if you aren't already, and, and I'll see you
guys in the next video. (calm music) 