This seems impossible I'm gonna throw up What is that Beverly welcome to another episode of world record Wednesdays when we break or set a world record Every single Wednesday last week we set five new world records that we wanted you guys to try But they're all kind of easy for us so this this week We wanted to step it up and we're gonna be breaking three official Guinness World Records today's episode the world record Wednesdays is sponsored by We've got three Guinness World Records that are going for today and that third one is pretty crazy one of the weirdest things We've had on this channel, so get ready, but first. I'm doing that record I love Donuts, and if I can eat a few play with a few and set a world record Why not you know Josh from this record on the guinness world record website And it is most Donuts stacked in one minute the current record is 11 in my head It should be pretty easy But it's a Guinness World Record the good news is they are glazed and then myself as like an adhesive hmm science Look at my downs. You're on the table now ready to stack Let's do this all right got your timer ready 3 2 1 go Far so good, I feel like the first few are gonna. Be easy it's going tough hard tell Uh-oh this is where they get you they Don't get me I get them 20 seconds shake oh no hold on oh no two one. Oh No alright try again one thing we did see is the video of the guy Setting this record breaking this record with 11 he used cream-filled Donuts So no holes and Walmart didn't tap those so we hopefully can break it. If not we gotta go find some other donuts. Oh No you say. Oh, no awash in the middle of me doing this. It's discouraging. Sorry You got this Now we're talking one Bottling destroy push, so maybe that's why the guy use the cream-filled one's canceled records, man. They get you sometimes It's like you go through and you're like yeah, I could beat this But didn't you remember there's a reason this person's the best in the world ed except for catches a blindfolded jQuery got that down three two one So we just we cut our losses and go get some Some you doughnuts. No matter if it's a competition or not the idea of more donuts always seems like a good idea to me But I'm thinking like what what kind of cream-filled Donuts. You think would stack best ok first impressions I don't see how this is gonna be better They're very rounded I Think this record is really about the donut you get though Yeah, that's life. You just you stack the donuts. You get you play the cards. You're dealt you eat the flowers you pick. You know b21 go Well oh very different sensation. They're heavy though. I think that could be good. They are not like Collapsing like the other ones did like not pressing in but the other ones were so much easier Oh, no good. Shape oh all the creams on this way out Why did you trick us and his look super flat like these are very much rounded and his looked like he probably got a friend That one is do Sid this seems impossible We might have just bought some cream-filled Donuts for no reason I mean we're gonna eat them other than hats yeah, and the nutritional value for 3 yeah All right save them Hey new strategy 3 2 1 baselayer cream-filled 2 1 No Back in the saddle and give it one more shot stuck on Three two one release I think that counts boom, dude So we tied tied the current world-record holder But I've got an idea Because I think I'm you know other two records have a theme that they actually let me tell you the theme but Jake time to take off our socks socks are off all today's records are going to involve a feet and You know we weren't that great at stacking donuts with their hands But let's let's give it a shot with that feet for maybe one of the grossest records. We've done in this channel It's going to feel disgusting. It's gonna be nasty All I can imagine when using my feet is the foot dexterity with Dwight Schrute has Like this is gotta go to some point like that so most in a minute to balance, but yeah with a feet, okay And it's a challenge because VA can everyone against each other so whoever does this I think we can safely say is the the new world record holder I'm excited to stick my big toe right in the hole. You know and just kind of grill it that way To what go oh, yeah? Oh, yeah? stick that to in Like a chimpanzee. Do you feel like a chimpanzee very fast? Yeah, I feel like a chimpanzee Wow we maybe need more Donuts Oh I did Eat more doughnuts, I guess Jake wins We didn't think we could get past It's a new world record is the fastest time to stack six donuts with your feet and that time is better This was fun and gross hopefully you guys enjoyed that On to the next record what's up, you know? What goes great with having your toes soaked in donut sauce walking around on a gym floor barefoot Josh What are we doing here? This is a world record in the Guinness World Records database for most flip flops? Hit into a target by a team of two the current record is seven We are four metres away from the target Which is 12 inches or more off the ground in my head again? It's easy, but so is the donut one, so we'll see how it goes Okay So we have to write it down to right amount flip-flops We are not doing so well on the common you get in the target. Just yet. I think it's doable Oh What's up everybody it's been an hour and a half since we first started throwing these stupid sandals around This is by far the hardest record. We've ever attempted No This series a world arguments for over a year this was without a doubt the most difficult Challenging and frustrating world record we have broken say total time of this Over two hours. Oh yeah my toes rub the Awesome my left foot is tired from balancing on one foot for the last two hours Hey cow we set our minds to it. We made it happen eventually Yes Watch it watch Alright guys. That was one of the best moments for us on world-record Wednesday's I'm still in shock that we did that we're the best, but that wasn't even the best record on this video That's true the next one coming up is insane at the be in this video We were given the freedom to spend two and a half hours flickin sandals, and that's the beauty of not having a real job So signup help us out so we can keep making awesome content like this and now let's get to the third and final record prepare To be amazed and this is her page hall Paged you do you want to tell everyone what your special talent is or do you want me to tell them or do you want? To show them I think we should show up, okay? I'm gonna throw up, but I'm also very proud of you, and what your gosh gosh. It's still holding Okay you can you can? I'm not even like acting right now like that shittily makes me squirm a little bit on the insides And it feels like the food in my intestines is going the opposite direction Feels like my hair is growing back into my skin feels like my ears or page How long have you known that you can do unbelievable things with your ankles? I'm a dancer so whenever I was in ballet class we were working like turnout And you started turning. He's kind of kept turning It kept going there is already a pre-existing record that involves turning your feet backwards Fastest time to travel 20 meters with your feet turned around and at least 120 degree angle Paige. How confident are you are? How confident are you that you can break this record today pretty confident? That's what I like to hear Let's do it the record is 20 meters. We're gonna. Go at least 66 feet to give us some room Paige are you ready? I'm ready all right. You need to stretch. Do you need to call your doctor not yet? Okay, okay? Oh My god. Oh my god look at her go No world record holds the Tartine point three - shattered it No, good new world record Everybody paid you were literally the best in the world at something how does that feel weird? Awesome, that's one like Jake and I don't think we'll ever try to ever break So you're safe living first try to like not an issue to just shatter the record by five seconds impressive. Thanks, babe That was awesome Thank You Paige you have an Instagram. I do Oh what is it? Hip hop under squirt Goldie Wow? Thank you so much for watching everybody we stack some donuts We stack some dogs with our feet we flicked seven freaking flip flops into a target in seconds and our friend Paige shattered an existing Guinness world record for walking with your feet all backwards and gross Hope you guys enjoyed it remember Sign up for our link in the description, or is right here and sign up for Skillshare You will get access to all of the juggling tutorials that we have up there jake's instagram tutorial And then we've got more coming every week, so we're going posting more, so we would love for you guys to sign up Here's a look at our instagram shout outs Thanks for following us everybody and now it's time to go to the beach That's more than I ordered what is this whoa donut hole sorry? 