- What's up everybody? Peter McKinnon here, and
today we're talking about five ways to take photos of
the same thing, differently. It's a thinker right there,
it's definitely a thinker. Okay, a big challenge in
photography is usually trying to find the right angle
that makes whatever you're shooting look the best that it
possibly can, and then beyond that, a big challenge is
trying to find different ways to make the same thing
look great over a series of different photos, if you're
hired to do product shots, if you're hired to do a
wedding or anything like that, sometimes when you're taking
photos of the same object, it's hard to make it look
different, but there's a couple tips and tricks that I can
teach you guys so that you can start taking multiple shots
of the same thing, making them all look different but all
equally phenomenal in their own way, okay? Now instead of just shooting
the finished product, you gotta think beyond that,
you gotta think to yourself, how was this made, how was it
put together, what complements it, what is it used for, who's using it, what's the demographic? All of these questions spawn different types of images, okay. So let's use food for an
example, my wife and I run an Instagram account, link
below, go give that some love, we just cook, well she cooks,
let's be honest, and I take photos of the food. (dance music) Let's say, for instance,
we're making a salad, okay, most people would just take
pictures of the salad and be done with it, but there's
so many more photos to be had from that item, like
all of the ingredients that go into making that salad,
that's a photo in it's own. The prep, the preparation of
those items, that's a photo on it's own, the salad actually
being made in steps and stages, that's a set of photos
or footage, on it's own. The finished salad of course,
is a photo on it's own. Maybe even the salad remnants,
of the end of the bowl, with the dressing and the
forks empty, to show that this salad is now gone. Might be silly, but I mean,
what we're trying to do here is tell a story and get the
widest range of imagery from one subject, instead of just
shooting the bowl, maybe rotating it, shooting it again. Maybe instead of putting it
in a bowl, put it in a wine glass, now you've got a
completely different looking image that looks super, super cool,
and different and unique. So there's different ways
of presenting your shots, there's different ways of
packaging your own shots, different ways of shooting
them, different themes that you can work in and out of to
get the most out of whatever it is that you're shooting,
and that's what I'm trying to teach you guys, I'm trying to
teach you to look at things from different angles, new
perspectives, ways that you wouldn't have before, maybe
the opposite ways that are taught, maybe instead of
putting in lower thirds, just forget lower thirds,
who cares, do what you think looks good, you
might surprise yourself. That's what I'm trying to do here. Now, where this kind of
subject came to be and where I started thinking about it
more so, was the job that I just left, for the past seven
years, a little fun fact here, it was a job that created
magic tricks to sell to other magicians, mind blown right? Craziest, most random job,
so yes, I know a thing or two about a deck of cards. But one of the biggest
challenges of this job was, you know, with the amount
of cards we were pumping out yearly, I was the one
photographing them all, and making trailers for them all, so
the, the challenge was, hey Pete, here's another one,
make it better than the last, or make it more unique than
the last, or every bit as unique as the last, over and
over and over and over again, for one, two, five, six, seven years. So seven years photographing
this same product, but trying to make it different every single time. It gets exhausting, it gets
to the point where you're trying everything, so as
horrible as that sounds, it actually wasn't, because
man, did I explore so many different avenues with that,
and this is what I kinda took away from it, if the
deck of cards theme was water, then I would obviously do
more water-based photos, so I would drop the
cards in a tank of water, and I would light it from both
sides with external flashes and try to get a nice shot
of the cards dropping down into the water, maybe the same
if it was fire, or if it was the Prohibition era, we would
go to the antique shop and buy a bunch of old school
props to make them feel old world, old wooden cases and
handkerchiefs, and just a bunch of, bunch of weird stuff,
to throw into that photo to change that mood, to match the
theme of the deck of cards, so in doing that, it really
opened up the doors to, how can I take so many photos
of the same thing but make them all different and feel unique? And that's when I realized,
it's not just shooting the end product, most people will
just get this in the mail, they'll take a shot of this
and be like, cool done, and that's it, their photos
are finished, they don't actually think about, maybe
someone needs to be wearing those, or experiencing
what those do for somebody. And that's where really, really powerful, thoughtful imagery comes from. I know we're using food as an
example, so some people might be like, thoughtful imagery of a salad? But yeah, it's not, if that's
what you think, you're missing the point, the point is
that you don't have to just shoot the salad, you can
shoot everything that entails around the salad. Let's say you're a wedding
photographer, right, how many times have you
just seen a standard shot of the box and the two rings
inside, and click, done, shot is taken, here's your
photos of the rings, peace. But why not have someone
actually polishing the rings, or putting them into their
pocket for safe keeping later? If you want to go the extra
mile, after you've booked that wedding, obviously they already
have an engagement ring, but they need to get wedding
bands done, so why not ask one of them if they're
getting the bands custom made, and if they are, see if
whomever's custom making them is in the area and go shoot
those rings being made. That's badass! And you might say to yourself,
that's so much work that I don't really have to do
for the same, but that is the wrong way of thinking, doing
that extra work sets you so far from the competition,
that you went out to shoot the rings being made, who
doesn't want to book that guy? I do. I'm already married. You think in groups of images
instead of just the image itself, you think of the
before, the after, the during, the experience, the packaging,
what is it for, where is it from, how does it work? All those things are photo
opportunities, and one of the reasons I really love
this topic is because so many people get stuck with, where
am I gonna shoot, I got nothing to take pictures of, I've
already shot that, but did you really shoot it, fully? Did you really shoot that
to it's fullest potential? And this bleeds across to
portraits and landscapes and everything, like, if you're
shooting the beach, maybe shoot a drone shot of the
beach, get a normal shot of the beach, get a macro shot
of the sand of the beach, shoot all the different
elements of the same thing to get the most out of
everything you're shooting, so you can see how this is
just, this is photography as a whole, this isn't just
about food shots or product shots, this is about shots
in general, not these kinda shots, do those later. An important point of this
as well, is if you're being paid, if you're a photographer
that takes money from people, in exchange for photos,
your clients will be far happier if you're giving
them a little more than they asked for, or you're really
just exploring their product, or you're exploring their
property, or you're exploring their personality, be it
that it's in portraits, whatever you're delivering for
that client, if you're really going in and trying to open
up and expose every aspect of that item, they're gonna be
happier for it, you're gonna be happier for it, you're
gonna get re-booked, you're gonna get more bookings. It's also better to go home
with more photos than not enough, or ten photos of that
finished salad from a few different angles, already
in the bowl, versus going home with the prep, the
ingredients, it being made, the salad itself from different
angles, someone eating it, people enjoying it, the plates
it was used to be put on. And you're gonna have more
fun, there's just more stuff to shoot, try out different
lenses, that kind of thing. Just a fun little reminder
that, peeling back the layers essentially of everything
that you're shooting can yield a whole bunch of new opportunities,
new styles, new types of shots, new angles, and by
actively thinking about those things, we're gonna get
better photos, it's just, we're gonna get a better,
and we're gonna get a better variety of photos, they're
not all gonna be the photos of the same thing, you're not
gonna get home from a shoot and say, I've got 80 pictures
of this salad that all kind of look the same, we're
gonna have 80 pictures of everything about that entire event. Everything about that salad
being made, who's making it, who it's made for, all of
those little things that, a lot of us, myself included,
usually forget to do. So that is it for me today
guys, I hope you guys enjoyed that, just a fun little,
kind of a, not necessarily teaching you any skill set with
the camera, or the software, but more so, a new skill set
to start thinking about the things that you're shooting differently. And by thinking about them
differently, and asking more questions, that generates
a new way of shooting, it generates a new style of
shooting, a new way of thinking about things that inherently,
turns out more photos, and hopefully some creative
photos that you guys are really, really proud of. So, thank you so much for
watching, I hope you guys loved it, I hope you guys got
something out of it, and we'll continue to practice these
things that I'm talking about. And if you liked this,
hit that like button, show me some love, subscribe,
if you aren't already, just hit that button, and you
can be notified every time I upload a video, whoo hoo. Isn't that just badass? And, and, I will see you
guys in the next video. Shoop! 