- Hey boyfriend, can you feed
me bananas, make me look cool? - [Man] Nope. - (clears throat) Darlings
yes, my name is Sorelle Amore, and I am the winner of
the best job on the planet out of 17,000 people last year,
where I traveled the world for three months and I
stayed in 12 luxurious homes all around the world, uh, uh... I also got paid $10,000
a month to do this, and I am the luckiest woman alive, so how is life after the
best job on the planet? (laughs) Jesus, this is horrible. Boring (laughs). - [Man] Behind the scenes (laughs) (soft funky music) - Woo, yeah! Basically, what I'm trying
to say is that competitions like this, and there's a lot of them floating around everywhere right now, this can change the entire
trajectory of your life. This can change everything,
it's mind-blowing, what opens up in your
mind, the possibilities, traveling everywhere all over
the world and getting paid for it is actually a thing
'cause you build the skills and connections and
insights into this industry, being an influencer,
it's madness, so, yes, I get that you really,
really, really wanna win this, and I wanna help you so, so bad, and if you're already
applying, it could be a matter of, like, one small thing
that you've done wrong that could destroy everything. When these companies put
out a competition like this, they're looking for very,
very specific things, so I'm gonna give you all
the insights that I know because I am the winner of
the Best Job on the Planet from last year, out of 17,000
people that applied via video, 50,000 people applied by emails, see, that's already 33,000
people that did it wrong because they didn't put a
video into the application. There are so many different things that could completely screw your chances, so without further adieu,
actually, there is further adieu because if I'm gonna help
you win this competition, I am gonna get paid for
this video, so therefore, These brands are, they're
looking for a spokesperson for the brand, your
professionalism, presentation has to be on point, and your
skills have to match what they are looking for, if
you don't have these skills, you can quickly try to
develop them in the short time you're trying to get this
application up and running, but because we're in a
very good time right now and there's a lot of companies that are seeking viral
marketing strategies which includes these
giant travel competitions, a lot of these competitions
are coming through, so you need to prepare
yourself now, start now with your photographs,
with your Instagram, make it professional, make
it great, make it unique and exciting and most of all, authentic personality is
what they are seeking, so let's get into more details of that. Who is the brand running this competition? Do you match with them,
are they a luxury brand, are they a fun brand, are they posh, are they fun and approachable? Research what they stand for and try to match your application
with that because if you're a massive party
animal, and they're looking for someone that has
sophistication and so forth, you're not aligning straight away, so if you submit a video
that is party-related, they're not even gonna really consider it, so you have to make sure you
research as much as you can about the brand and try to
match their values perfectly. Sell yourself like a boss! In your application video,
show off your skills. What do you have on offer, is it writing? Show off the places you have been featured with your writing, is
it photography, show off all the photos you've taken
and how great they are! Is it videography, show that. Is it because you're a vlogger, show that, little snippets, tiny
snippets just so they can get a really good understanding
with a very short amount of time of who you are and
what you can do for them. Authenticity is key, this
is a huge, huge thing that made me win, they
told me this after I won. They said, we loved how authentic you are. We knew exactly what we were
getting, and your personality shown through, this is
what you guys really need to work on, there's a lot
of copycats in the world, especially in the travel
industry, everyone wants to be a travel influencer,
but if you're not authentic to yourself, if you're
not sticking to your guns, if you're trying to be like everyone else with your photos, with your videos, you're not gonna stand out,
so make sure your personality shines through and you are
authentic because if you're not being authentic, it shows,
authenticity is key. Stick to the time limit
always, this is one of the most important
things, actually, all of them are really important,
if they say one minute, you submit a one minute,
nothing longer, nothing shorter. If they say two minutes,
nothing longer, nothing shorter. Exactly the time limit
because they wanna know that you're utilizing the
most out of this application, and if you go over, it just
shows that you don't know how to follow simple
instructions, so never, ever, not even one second
over, mm-mm, stick to it. Be professional, so, your
image is extremely important, even if they're a fun, young brand, they still wanna make sure that
you are being professional. If you win this competition,
you're representing this brand. There's a lot that they're putting on you. There's a lot they're vouching for, you need to be professional,
so if your Instagram is just, you know, selfies,
and butts, and food, and you partying all the
time, and beers everywhere, it's gonna hinder your chances of winning. With your application videos, and they're basically almost
always application videos because they wanna know
who they're working with, speak to the camera as much as possible, let your personality shine through. I've seen application videos
where it's like drone shots all the time, very little
speaking or B roll with a lot of music, and you've just
missed the opportunity of a lifetime, they
wanna know who you are, the video is so they
connect with you and see if you're the right person for the brand, so do not waste time, of course, you're gonna have little
snippets here and there with nice music and B-roll
to show off that you know how to use a camera and so
forth, they're not looking for a videographer or a
photographer, they're looking for a person, a spokesperson,
so show that off. As a side note, yes, beautifully
filmed is almost a must. Do not do this on your
iPhone for the love of God. I mean, I've seen people
filming like this way, even instead of this way
on an iPhone, like, no, borrow a camera, you need
to do this professionally. A massive question: Are you
actually skilled to do this because this job is hard, and
I know this from experience. Three months on the road with
the best job on the planet with ThirdHome, I love these guys, I'm forever gonna enjoy
these memories, thank you, but it was one of the hardest
three months of my life because I hardly slept,
I was producing content like a madwoman, if I was
traveling, it was, like, sometimes, 20 hours, 30 hours in a plane. I'd get to the destination,
go straight to the house, take photos of the house,
take videos of the house, go explore the cities, edit
at nighttime 'til 2 a.m., like, there was so much work,
I can't even explain to you, the amount of go, go, go, I had
one day off in three months, I had to give myself a day off
'cause I was about to crash. You need to know that this
is gonna be a lot of work, it's not a holiday in any means. They're gonna require a lot from you, and they will require
photography, videography, possibly writing skills, editing skills, and a quick turnaround,
if you can't do this, I don't advise you applying for this because it is extremely hard, and you're probably not gonna get it if you don't have these skills, but I just wanna say one
small thing, in this instance, it's gonna be, like, guys
thinking, oh, I got this, man, I don't care, like, I
might be not as skilled in this instance, but I
have, I'm like, awesome 'cause guys always kind of
elevate themselves a lot more, whereas girls shrink themselves,
so if you're a female and you have a few skills here and there and your skills might not be
perfect, I still want everyone, this includes guys and girls, apply because maybe your videography
is not the perfect one, maybe your Instagram doesn't
have that many followers. Do not sit back and wait for
this opportunity to slide back. If you think that you could do this and you could push
through and really deliver if you have that drive to
make it as good as possible for this brand, you need to
apply, so don't talk yourself out of this, humans are
very good at doing this. You just need to do
it, if it doesn't work, at least you've tried, just apply, it could change your life forever. Logistically, like, really
detailed, choose music that is appropriate because
I have also seen applications that are like (mimics techno beat), and I'm like, whoa,
chill out this is insane. Research the brand, what they
stand for, what their branding is like, a good way to do
this is to research what kind of music they have used in the
past with their own videos, even what kind of feel to the
videos they have, and then that means that you can
pretty much copy their style because they're looking
for someone very similar to their style in the end. I also just thought of this,
if you have a media kit, send it through to them,
they'll appreciate it. That's it, I hope these are very helpful, I hope you guys win, I
really, really, truly hope so. I wish everyone could win because this is such an
incredible opportunity of a lifetime, if you
wanna know more about me, if you wanna stalk some of
the work that I've done, there's a playlist here with
my Best Job on the Planet stuff and also, my Instagram
with all my photographs from my travels, good luck,
fingers crossed for you, peace! 