So here’s the question: how fast can you
circumnavigate the world on regularly scheduled, commercial flights? And before you you try to convince an airline
to start a flight around the North Pole, which technically would cross every line of longitude,
there are some rules, and they’re not even my rules. The good news is that I get to flex my French
because these are the rules of the Fédération Aéronautique Internationale. The bad news is that to set a record you need
to fly 22,750 miles—the length of the tropic of cancer. That number may seem rather arbitrarily set,
but as the governing body of all aviation competitions, the FAI gets to decide the rules,
but those are really the only rules. As long as you start and finish in the same
place, travel that distance, and take only commercial airlines, you can set this record. So, strategy. You’re not going to want to go this way…
at all. You see, between here and here the winds blow
strongly to the east while between here and here they blow slightly less strongly to the
west, and then that mirrors in the southern hemisphere. So, you could fly all between the tropic of
Cancer and Capricorn, that is, if you don’t want to break a record. You see, not only are these easterly winds
weaker than the westerly winds further north and south, there’s also just not much aviation
in this area of the world. More than half of the world's population lives
north of the Tropic of Cancer which means that, by sticking in this area, you get more
flights flying faster. But the biggest difficulty is scheduling. You see, flight schedules are just arranged
in a way that can make it really difficult to find short connections. For example, nearly all of the flights from
North America to Europe leave in the evening. If you factor in time change, these flights
generally take 6 hours plus 5 or 6 hours of time change from the east coast which means
that you either have to leave in the early morning or evening in order to arrive during
the day in Europe. Out of the hundreds of daily flights crossing
the Atlantic, only 9 leave in the morning. They generally leave between 8 and 11 am eastern
then the evening departures leave between 5 and 11 pm. That means there are only really eight hours
per day when you can catch a transatlantic flight. If you want to connect on the US east coast,
all your flights need to be arranged to get you there in one of those eight hours. But enough beating around the bush, here's
the record to beat held by David Springbett—a former insurance broker from the UK. He flew from Los Angeles to London to Bahrein
to Singapore, to Bangkok, to Manila, to Tokyo, to Honolulu, to Los Angeles in 44 hours and
6 minutes, but spoiler alert—you’re not going to beat his record, because he did it
in 1980 so he could use this—the Concorde. The Concorde was known for shuttling passengers
from London and Paris to New York in three hours, but it did have a short-lived route
between London and Singapore via Bahrain in 1979 and 80. That meant David Springbett was able to fly
this section of his trip in 8 hours and 40 minutes instead of the 13 hours it takes today
non-stop. So what’s the fastest you can fly around
the world today? Well, perhaps 53 hours and 14 minutes. This record was set on all subsonic flights
by two Australians who flew from Sydney to Los Angeles to London to Bombay to Perth to
Melbourne to Sydney, but, I have a better suggestion. Let’s say you start the very day this video
comes out—October 19th, 2017. You leave London Heathrow on the 11:25 AM
Singapore Airlines Flight to Singapore arriving at 7:30 AM the next morning, then just under
two hours later you catch the 9:25 Singapore Airlines flight to San Francisco. Even though the flight is 15 hours, thanks
to the International Date Line you arrive just 15 minutes later at 9:40 AM, still on
Friday, then you catch the 10:40 United flight to Houston, connect to the 5:50 pm United
flight to Mexico City, then get dragged off at 8:05 with just enough time to hop onto
the 9:40 PM British Airways flight to London. If all goes well, that gets you back in London
after having traveled 23,131 miles—more than the required distance—at 2:10 PM on
Saturday—50 hours and 45 minutes after you left, beating the current record. But there’s probably a better itinerary
than that, but I couldn’t find it, so, since I’m such a fan of free labor, you should
go and find it, submit it to halfasinteresting.com/flight and then, in a week, whoever has the shortest
time will get a free t-shirt and year-long membership to Skillshare, which happens to
be the best place to learn whatever you want 