- So I'm currently here and I want to be over there for filming. Here. If this video comes out
with this bit in it, we know I've been successful. (laughs) Oh. Oh. (pop music) Okay. But now you need to be over here too. (giggles) So I got kicked out of the other side. Welcome to the new background. (sighs) I have severe boob sweat right now and I'm dripping with sweat and
it's just going to get worse the more you watch this video
so enjoy that part of things, but the show must go on,
so today I'm going to be covering 12 mistakes that
beginner photographers make because you guys keep asking
me how I get my photos and you really love what
I do and I've gotta say, I really love what I'm doing right now too so it's really fun to see me
from a shitty photographer just a couple of years ago
to someone I consider myself to be pretty good. I think it's down to knowing
these 12 rules of photography and kinda working within
the parameters and not going outside of that. These are kind of the rules
you can't really break if you want to have great photographs. So I hope you guys enjoy this, but first, The best photographs that
I've seen are very simple. Simplicity is key. I try to stick to two, three elements and generally what I mean
by that is me and trees. Or me, water, rocks. Horse, mountains, grass. To me, these photographs are so simple and they communicate the
message of the photograph ASAP, which is what I love and
then it also, on a side note, makes your Instagram look poppin' because everything is so
simple and people know exactly what they're seeing when
the come to your page. Very simple, easy to digest. Head through horizon. It just doesn't look good. Either go down, or go up with the camera, and the same goes for poles. It just doesn't look good when there's a pole or something coming out of a person's head. This is my example, and this is how I happened to get rid of it. Don't recommend it, looks super
fake, but I was like, meh. (laughs) Continuing the video. If your highlights are too blown out, you will not be able to bring
them back in post-production. I always shoot quite dark so
that I'm able to bring back a lot of details in post-production, especially the highlights
because if they're too blown out, see you later photo, it just doesn't work. Yes. I am the queen of posed photos. I love the advanced selfie as a lot of you guys already know. But you can get to a point where
it's too posed and too fake and it just doesn't look good. So whenever I'm capturing
my self portrait, I put myself into a
position that looks good. I know my body looks good and then I try to make my face
look as natural as possible to add that contrast of
extremely posed to quite relaxed. There are definitely
exceptions to this rule. As a beginner though, so
many beginner photographers go down the path of too
posed so you have to find the perfect balance of posing and natural. It's really great to play
out emotions instead of just (grunt) pose, (grunt) pose. For my boss shots, I always
think queen, queen, queen, as an example. I have heard so many beginner
photographers saying that they don't want to edit their photographs and I makes... uh... it makes me cringe because this is probably the funnest part
of photography to me. I'd say 50-60 percent of a
photograph is in the editing because this when you can
bring out your own style, show what you like. If you just show a
photograph without editing (dramatic breathing) panic,
panic attack, panic attack. Simple editing, even if
it's lightroom presets. Mm. Weird filters, over-saturation,
not saturated enough. That's the polar extreme
of not edited at all and it's people that
take it to the extreme. Just tone it back. Any of the filters within Instagram are not good, unless they
are a 5-10 percent usage everything looks bad, so do
not take examples and advice from Instagram filters. You have to figure out your own style. Do not over edit as a beginner. The sharpness of your focus
point in your photograph distinguishes you from a
beginner to an advanced person. If you're an advanced
photographer, you always focus on the sharpening, especially
around the eyes for humans, you make sure the eyes are in
focus because this is the... Because this is the window to the soul, and if they're not sharp, not so good. For me, someone that's more
comfortable with a camera, I do play around with sharpness
and take it out of focus sometimes because I
like the effect of that, but as a beginner, try to
get your sharpness on point. Basically, as a beginner, try
to stick to the rule of thirds or shoot people centered because... because... because I think you have
to learn the rules first before you break them. You can't really go wrong shooting in center or rule of thirds. I just thought I would have to
mention, I don't think anyone does this anymore, just in case though, do not bring up all the shadows
and create a HDR effect. (vomit sound) Just don't do it. It is so outdated. It's going to make you look
really, really, really novice if you do this. (breath sounds) Exceptions to this rule
is minimalism photography, but basically if you don't have a subject the photo is very dull. So if there's nothing that
draws your eye in, kinda boring. There has to be a focal
point, so concentrate on that. Whether it's a person,
whether it's an animal, whether it's a tree,
whether it's a building, give people something
to look at instead of trying to work out what
the image is about. It happens to all of us when we begin. We are so afraid we're not
going to get the shot that we just overshoot straight away. We get into the situation and
we, like, shoot, shoot, shoot! I always go into the location first and I analyze everything around me. And I'll walk around
and figure out where the right spots are to take photos,
where the lighting is good. I don't take out my camera
for about 5-10 minutes before I start shooting because I need to know what I'm working with and
the more advanced I get, the less shots I need to take because I set up my frame
perfectly, I love what I see, I get into frame and then I
start shooting with intention. This is going to come with
practice, but, if you can, take a deep breath before
you start shooting, see what you're looking at, and then bam, get that shot baby! I hope these tips were super
helpful to you (lip sounds). Do enjoy the photography experience. Make sure that you're chasing art at all times
with your photography. This is what photography is all about. If you would like, follow me on Instagram to check out my work and if you
want to hashtag sorelleamore on your next uploads on
Instagram so I can check out what you're doing, because I
want to see your photography. (kiss sounds) That's it. Peace. 