Twitter is good for one thing, and one thing only: Memes! Other than that, I think Twitter is mostly just Ushering in the end of the world. But people use Twitter for all kinds of reasons, And most of them are annoying. So here are The Top Ten Most Annoying People You will encounter on Twitter. The Loud Girl This Tweeter does not have to be a female, But usually is. They use all caps for everything, And their tweets are about nothing. Normally, like, if two celebrities start dating, They'll tweet about that. Haha guys, look how weird I am for getting so Excitable over something so small and dumb, But that's the kind of unique person I am! And usually the Loud Girl grows up to be: The Quirky Adult This is that young adult who really really really Wants you to know that they don't have it together. No, but you're not getting kicked out of your apartment either. I would say that you truly become an adult the day You stop using the word "adulting." And adults sometimes have kids, eventually, Which leads to number three: The Lying Parent Okay, this one has a bit of a political slant – I'm sorry – but What is with these parents who tweet things their kids "Said"... that they obviously never said? That's, more or less, a direct quote. But I, I-I get the point of the lie They're trying to say, -Well, if my five-year-old can figure out the solution -How come my stupid political opponents can't? Instead of thinking, "Hey... My political world view can be explained by a five-year-old." "Interesting..." The Search and Destroyer This is that person who searches a term Or hashtag on Twitter, and then replies To everyone who is tweeting about that thing And there's a lot. Thankfully though, they're usually very positive and uplifting! *laughing through the pain* -That movie was awesome! -Oh, hey. I hear you guys talkin' about that movie that you both like so much, I'm sure. -Yeah. [Narrator] It looks like Jordan has stumbled Across two people talking about a shared interest. What would be the most edgy thing Jordan could- [Jordan] It was terrible. [Narrator] Oh. [Jordan] Here- here's some links that... [Narrator] Uh...Well now it appears that Jordan is Showing them a YouTube video that definitively proves That the movie is terrible. -Wh-Who are you? -I'm Miserable. This next one is classic. Ladies, you know what I'm talking about: The Desperate DM-er This is that guy who DMs, -Hey Then a few days later, -Why won't you talk to me? Then a couple days after that, -Heyyy And then, -Hi, how are you today? And then, finally, -Please speak to me And then the Desperate DM-er Never found love. The Restraining Order Fan This is that deranged person who replies To every single tweet a celebrity posts And says the same thing: None of it makes sense. And none of it is healthy. The "Everything is Political" Tweeter This happens to us a lot: We remember some band we liked, you know, Growing up, and we're like, "Huh, I wonder what happened to the- the people in that band." So we hop on Twitter and search their personal account Only to find out, they're They're just posting about Trump 24/7 now Oh, how boring. The Exaggerating Intellectual This is that person who thinks their opinion Holds a lot more weight than it does. They're always making these proclamations About how something they like is the best ever Or "genius" or whatever. I just finished a book that, no joke, Changed my entire life – Definitely in my Top Ten Books of All Time. How many books have you read? Eight. But I've started many more though. The Bandwagon Activist These people wake up every single morning Get some coffee, sit down in front of their laptop, And then check the Twitter trends to find out What they're supposed to be outraged by today. [BHK] Oh, the righteous anger that flows through me right now! So they tweet and tweet and tweet And make sure everyone knows how much They care about whatever the issue is. And once they're done tweeting, They go on about their day like nothing ever happened. The end. The Threader The self-important person you follow Who is constantly posting threads And they're so smug about it that they announce When they're going to begin a thread. Like, everyone is supposed to be on the edge of their Seat just refreshing Twitter over and over Waiting for that next important tweet in the thread. Nobody cares. Get over yourself. And that goes for everyone on Twitter. Just- Let's get back to memes, guys. Come on! It's terrible. Here's some links that show that I'm right and... Who are you? Wait, sorry *laughter* PLEEAASE NOTICE ME. YAS QUEEN. DAAAADDDDY. *Jordan laughs* [Deep voice] Haha guys, look How weird I am for getting so excitable over Something so small and dumb, But that's the kind of unique person I am. 