[♪ INTRO] Back in 2008, astronomers spotted a weird
thing in our neighboring galaxy Andromeda. Without warning, a star suddenly flashed incredibly
brightly! But then, it faded back to normal over about
fifteen days. And then, a year later, it did it again! Year after year, it kept on bursting into
brightness and then settling back down. Scientists named it M31N 2008-12a, which we’ll
call 12a for short. And it turns out, this thing is something
really special. It’s a rare phenomenon called a recurrent
nova. And it may hold the key to understanding the
lives and cataclysmic deaths of massive stars. In 2008, though, scientists didn’t realize
how cool this thing was. They believed that the first flash of 12a
was a plain old nova. If you’ve heard of supernovas, the violent
explosions that happen at the end of some stars’ lives, well, these are totally different. So you can thank astronomers for that. Novas are much less destructive. They originate from a very specific kind of
binary star system: a system with one normal star, and one small,
dense white dwarf. The white dwarf has a pretty intense gravitational
pull, so over time, it steals hydrogen gas from the outer layer
of its neighboring star. Over the years, that gas builds up on the
white dwarf’s surface, where it gets hotter, and hotter, and hotter. And when it reaches about twenty million degrees
Celsius, nuclear fusion is kick-started within that
outer layer. The stolen hydrogen is converted into heavier
elements, and that reaction releases a huge amount of energy, starting
a process called thermonuclear runaway. In this process, the fusion generates energy,
which heats up the hydrogen more, which boosts fusion,which generates more energy
and heat, and more fusion, and you get the idea. Ultimately, that sudden release of runaway
energy is enough to blast what’s left of the stolen hydrogen and the fusion products
outwards, away from the star. And you end up with a really bright shell
of material, lit up by the white dwarf and companion star
within. From Earth, we see novas as sudden pulses
of bright light that slowly fade over time, as their shells expand and dissipate into
space. And generally, they’re not that uncommon. Astronomers see about 10 in the Milky Way
every year, and at least 25 in Andromeda. But 12a was still special, because it wasn’t
just a regular, run-of-the-mill nova. It was a recurrent nova. In other words, after it blasted away all
that gas, it kept stealing hydrogen from its companion
star until it went nova again, and again, and again. Once a year, every year, practically right
on cue. This wasn’t the first recurrent nova scientists
had ever seen, but it does seem to be the one that explodes
the most often, since most objects like this only go off about
once every decade or few decades. And this behavior doesn’t seem to be new,
either. In fact, based on how big the shell of material
floating around 12a is, scientists think this nova has been regularly
erupting for millions of years. As for why? Well, scientists think it happens because
12a’s white dwarf is likely massive. With more mass, it has stronger gravity, so it can pull hydrogen from its companion
more rapidly, and begin thermonuclear runaway in less time. This recurrent nova is cool partly for that
weird factor, like, a star that partially explodes every
year? Yes please! But it might also have something important
to teach astronomers. 12a is so massive and is collecting so much
hydrogen that, eventually, scientists believe it will reach what’s
called the Chandrasekhar Limit. That’s the maximum mass a white dwarf can
be and still be stable, so after that point, it will transform into
some other kind of object. There are a couple of ways this could happen, but researchers think that it’s very likely
to explode as a Type Ia supernova. These supernovas are famous for their consistency. Basically every Ia that goes off is known
to have the same absolute brightness, and this is so well-documented that these
supernovas are part of a group nicknamed standard candles. Scientists use them all the time to calculate
how far away distant galaxies are, since their actual brightness goes down the
farther away they are. This is incredibly useful, because it helps
us measure the structure and expansion of the universe.
You know, big questions! But here’s the catch: We still don’t exactly
know how type Ia supernovas happen. Our models can’t quite explain it. So assuming 12a will go supernova someday,
we have a unique opportunity to study a system that’s potentially on
the brink of destruction. Seeing how it evolves could give astronomers
precious information about standard candle supernovas, and by extension, our tools for measuring
the universe. The only problem is that some researchers
think it’ll take another 40,000 years before 12a
goes supernova. So we might have a little while to wait! But in the meantime, our new understanding
of recurrent novas and the giant remnant shells that they leave
behind will help us find more of these things. And maybe we’ll even catch one in the act
of going supernova. Thanks for watching this episode of SciShow
Space! [♪ OUTRO] 