Amazing Spider-Man number 50 marks an iconic development
for the web head. The sacrifices Peter Parker made, the relationships and
opportunities he gave up on to clean up the streets as Spider-Man become too
much for him to bear. They eat away at him until Peter Parker becomes
Spider-Man no more. It's a powerful story about perseverance in the face of personal
struggle about great power and great responsibility, go figure. But Amazing Spider-Man number 50 also has a deeper hidden meaning. Peter's internal conflict
to quit being Spider-Man echoes his co-creator Stan
Lee's similar struggle to leave the comics industry forever and never creates another superhero again, a move that would have
left us without characters like Iron Man, Hulk, Fantastic Four, and even Spidey himself. The story of Spider-Man no more is secretly the story of
a critical deciding moment in pop culture. We're gonna talk about it. (tense music) (light music) How are you doing, wonderful nerds? Scott here and we have
finally reached part three of this saga exploring
early Spider-Man comics and their battle against censorship and the struggling comic book industry. It's been a wild ride. If you missed the first
two videos, don't worry. You don't need to watch 'em
to understand this video, but they will be linked in
the description down below and at the end of this video if you want to catch up afterwards. But again, not necessary. Now if you've never read
Amazing Spider-Man number 50 written by Stan Lee and
drawn by John Romita Senior, here is a quick recap of the story. Spidey is doing his thing, taking down a few armed thieves but a bystander fears that Spider-Man, out of all of them, is the
real threat to their lives thanks to J Jonah Jameson's smear campaign and the Daily Bugle against the hero. Peter reflects on how unfair it is that he is the only hero
who ever gets a bum rap. - [Spider-Man] Everyone flips over the FF. They think Daredevil's the coolest. Captain American turns 'em on. But just mention Spider-Man
and it's Freezeville. It's all Jameson's fault. - [Scott] But Peter has
other problems to focus on. As he arrives home, he learns that his Aunt
May has fallen ill. She called for Peter but he
wasn't there to help her. - [Spider-Man] If I had been
home like any other normal guy, they would have reached me fast. But no, I was out flexing my muscles, trying to help the very
people who fear me. So long as I hang onto
my Spider-Man identity, I haven't got time for
anything except new problems. - The stress keeps building. He fails a test the next day at school, and he's reminded by his professor that his grades are slipping, and he's in danger of flunking out. With his mind on his sick
aunt's and his failing grade, he has no choice but to decline
an invitation to a party Gwen Stacy is throwing. The balance between
family life, school life, and social life just can't be met when his superhero life
is also in the equation. - [Spider-Man] Spider-Man. I'm beginning to hate the
very sound of that name. - [Scott] On top of all that,
Norman Osborn offered Peter a prestigious job working
in his chemistry lab but it too would take up time he could be spending as Spider-Man. Then the final straw,
Jameson appears on TV to rant even more about how
Spider-Man is a public menace. The man won't stop. He shouts at anyone who will listen, determined to take the wall crawler down. - [Spider-Man] The terrible
thing is, he means it. He actually believes what he says. He sincerely thinks that
I am a thread to society. But... What if he's right? - Peter realizes that being Spider-Man has made him depressed. He jeopardized every relationship he had just to chase adventure and excitement. He starts to question his own motivations for being a superhero in the first place. Does he really fight crime because it's the right thing to do, or does he do it for the thrill of battle, his addiction to power and triumph? Peter gives in to his doubts. - [Spider-Man] For the
sake of my own sanity, there's only one thing left to do. I was just a young unthinking teenager when I first became Spider-Man. But the years have a way of slipping by, of changing the world about us. And every boy, sooner or later, must put away his toys and become a man. (thunder rumbling) - [Scott] From that points, everything you would
expect to happen happens. Jameson feels his crusade
has been vindicated. Crime rates in New York skyrocket. Peter Parker's life stabilizes as he's finally able
to focus his attention on friends, family, school, and the work. But when he witnesses
an old man in trouble, Peter can't help but spring into action and save the guy's life. I mean, the man looked
just like Peter's Uncle Ben who died at the hands of a burglar that Spider-Man let slip by. He remembers why he became a superhero, why he can never stop being Spider-Man. - [Spider-Man] No matter how
unbearable the burden may be, no matter how great my personal sacrifice, I can never permit one
innocent being to come to harm because Spider-Man failed to act, and I swear that I never will. - It's a really simple
straightforward story that was beautifully
drawn and well-written. Stan Lee's dialogue
feels real and personal. You can tell that he was
written from experience, not because he's secretly
a costumed vigilante, although I don't know that for sure. No, it feels real because Stan also struggled
with his own doubts as a comics writer. In the last Spider-Man video, we talked about how
psychiatrist Doctor Fredric were the one on a rampage
against comic books. Comics went from a cultural phenomenon to a medium that was looked down upon in the eyes of the public. An entire medium was seen as being harmful for society in general and
children in particular. Amazing Spider-Man number 50
even features a psychiatrist analyzing Spider-Man the same way Wertham analyzed superhero of his day like Batman and Robin. Because of Wertham's
crusade against comics, publishers took a massive financial hit and were collapsing left and right. Only a few were able
to barely stay afloat, but that wasn't even the worst of it. Being a comics creator was now
something to be ashamed of. Much like Spider-Man, comics publishers were
seen as a public menace. In the case of Stan Lee, he was just about through with the job. You can so clearly hear
Stan's voice in Peter's speech when he decides to give
up being Spider-Man. Just as Peter Parker was a young teen when he became a superhero, so too was Stan when he got
his start writing comic books. Lee was only 17 years old when he started working at Timely Comics, which would later evolve into Marvel. He was born Stanley Martin Lieber but chose the pseudonym Stan
Lee for his work in comics. He wanted to save his real name just in case he ever
published novels someday. In essence, Stan Lee was to Stanley Lieber what Spider-Man is to Peter Parker, a name he operated under for a job that gave him
nothing but unhappiness during that period of time anyway. Stan Lee always seems to be
having a lot of fun nowadays. - [Scott Voiceover] Hey, just
wanted to let you guys know that I recorded this video a month ago before all the different
articles started popping up about Stan's troubles
with fraud and elder abuse and being picked apart by vultures. I just didn't want you to think that I was blind to any of that. It's just I was uncharacteristically
ahead of schedule with this video and I am
paying the price for it. I have learned my lesson, and I will never be productive again. - Peter's comments about
abandoning Spider-Man by putting away his
toys and becoming a man could be read as Stan
contemplating dropping his alias, getting out of the childish
comic book industry and finally becoming
Stanley Lieber, novelist. It's no doubt that quitting
would be the easier thing to do than persevering in a culture
that looked down on comics. Just get out for his own sanity. He was close to that edge, close to putting costumed
superheroes behind him for good. As the legend goes, according
to Sean Howe's Marvel Comics: The Untold Story quote, "In
1961, Stanley Martin Lieber "was pushing 40, watching
the comic book industry, "in which he'd toiled for
over two decades, fade away. "Recently forced to fire
his staff of artists, "he sat alone," end quote. Marvel Comics was failing. Legendary artist Jack
Kirby described the company as quote, "On its ass, literally,
and when I came around, "they were practically hauling out "the furniture," end quote. Their biggest competitor, DC Comics, was enjoying a bit of a superhero revival with the relaunched versions of the Flash and Green Lantern and the surprise hit of their new Justice League comic. Marvel wanted to copy the success by launching new superheroes of their own, but Lee was fed up. He went home to his wife Joan and proclaimed that the
day had finally come, the day where Stan Lee
would quit writing comics. But Joan nudged him to try
writing one last superhero story. - When Stan was almost
ready to quit doing comics, he decided that that was enough, that's when I said to him, "No,
do it your way, sweetheart. "Do it exactly your way." - And right he did. In 1961, a million
thoughts and ideas later, Stan Lee and Jack Kirby unveiled 25 pages of a new superhero team
known as the Fantastic Four. What's interesting about this story, aside from all the stuff we already said, is that this wasn't even the first time that Peter Parker gave
up on being Spider-Man. That happened already only
18 issues into his series. Very similar circumstances led
him to throw away his tights but only for about two pages. He doesn't even leave his house before realizing that he shouldn't quit. He makes his big
declaration, goes downstairs to get a pep talk from Aunt May and decides to continue
being Spider-Man after all. This version is much more similar to the story of Stan Lee
marching into his own home and announcing his resignation before quickly being
turned around by Joan. Amazing Spider-Man 50, in contrast, operates as a story that
takes this idea further. It's Stan imagining what it would be like to actually leave it all behind, truly experience life outside of comics instead of just talking about it. But at the end of each story, Peter Parker's and Stanley Lieber's, they both learned to fully
embrace their alter egos and make an impact in the world. Spider-Man was back for good and so Stan Lee. - [Interviewer] Who's the best-looking man you've ever seen? (laughs) - Stan Lee. - [Interviewer] I just
want to warm up with that. (Joan laughs) - Of course, Stan Lee, the nicest man I've ever known. - Once again, I want to
give a huge shout-out to Sal from ComicPOP for voicing
Peter Parker, Spider-Man in this video and the last
video we did about Spider-Man. He really crushed it, really
knocked it out of the park. Please go check out ComicPOP. They make incredible videos over there. Really fun, really entertaining stuff. If you haven't seen 'em, it's definitely worth a look. Let me know if you guys
like analyses like this, and we can do some more
of them in the future. I want to give a huge thanks to everyone who supports our videos over on Patreon especially
Cristoffer Lange, Sonali Manka, Everett
Parrott, Elizabeth Moncel, and the rest of the wonderful nerds who, for some reason, want to see me continue to make videos. It's very nice of you,
and I appreciate it, and you're lovely. Click or tap right here
to watch our first video in this three-part saga
about how Spider-Man may have secretly been Marvel's
perfect horror monster. It's kind of a weird
concept that's a lot of fun. I'll see you wonderful nerds next week. Until then, my name is Scott reminding you to read between the panels and grow smarter through comics. See ya. 