Okay hello, this is Bo mi of Bbom Bbom Bbom I'm facing the camera with
my bare face again today I came to visit my dad and 
grandmother's house today My grandmother said
she'll plant flowers in the pots in front Please say hello Should I say hello? Yes Whom should I say hello to? Say hello to Bbosong (shy) Hello Bbosoon No, it's Bbosong, Bbosong Bbosong? Hello, Bbosong Hehehehe Grandma, what are you doing? I'm planting these flowers here To place it in front of the 
statue of the Virgin Mary Which flower is this, grandma? I don't know,
I don't even know it Since the flowers looked bright, 
I bought it You just bought it because it's pretty? Of course I think she'll plant these flowers in front of the statue of the 
Virgin Mary here It's pretty, right grandma? Who's prettier, 
the flowers or Bo mi? My granddaughter 
must be prettier You've got to be kidding It's done grandma,
let's go and place them Come here, aigo (it feels bad somehow..) (uhh...?) (Bo mi, you're in trouble..) No, my camera Ah, it got scratches So we placed them below here Grandma, what did we eat today? Uh? Why, is something on my lips? No What should I bring here, grandma? Bring the flowers It's very heavy Place it there (lol) Grandma, you almost dropped it, right? That's how I place it Okay now, my grandma is planning to plant sweet potatoes I heard that if we plant
the sweet potato plants today tasty sweet potatoes 
will come out in fall Hello (it's my first time seeing an idol) (let's bark for now) I'm sorry Oh, hey (Bo mi is scared lol) Aren't these rotten? Ah, they're not rotten,
these are the sweet potato plants indeed Okay, I'll try planting it as well Where, how are you shooting it? I'm just shooting myself
(Bo mi in a farm village (director: her dad)) Is this recording, like this? Ah (he mastered it) I just need to capture you 
on the screen, right? Bo mi's sweet potatoes planting Place it slantly, slantly Like this, try poking it slantly and deeply Okay Like this, right right, like that I'm good at it, right? Grandma Right, to the side like that Place them densely, densely Place them densely, okay How many do you plant, doing like this? 2,000 plants Hehe Haha Gracious heaven Grandma, don't you have one more of this? The.. the stick? Push it inside hard from the side Uhehe Ah, don't you have one more stick? (her dad finds it so funny lol) Don't you have one more of this stick? (a laboring time...) Grandma, I'm gonna hold this What you mean by holding it, aigo Please stay still Staying still is helping you? (the real family lol) Then, to help her even just a little bit I'll make cool beverages
at my grandma's house Aigo Wow There's a watermelon, everyone I should cut the watermelon and give to my grandma and dad It must be so delicious Wow (Bo mi eats it first lol) (lol) Oh, it's really crazy I heard that because of the Corona virus the gathering places for old ladies to gather up to whether play hwatu.. those places are all closed So, my grandma was so lonely for a while She was bored by herself My dad asked me to come here together 
since it's Parent's Day (sip) (sip sip sip) That's how I came here with my dad In fact, I wasn't thinking about 
turning on the Youtube I thought that Bbosongs 
will have a healing time just by showing my grandma's house So, I turned it on Uh? Should I decorate myself? My grandma gave me this
to wear it comfortably I'll try wearing it (farm village specialized Bo mi) Okay, that's good I'll go to bring the watermelon to my dad and grandma He's barking again, huh Hey Wait a second please Try eating it Dad, it's amazing, right? Umm Grandma, try eating it as well Good (the laboring time is continued) (drink the water and grow well) Guys, the reason why we put 
the earth on top again is that if we only plant it like this the vines will stick to this vinyl and it will wither later, I heard So, by fixing it with the earth like this by making it stand like this,
although it's not that straight, it won't die later, I heard My grandma has already 
finished working on one line I also finished working on one line,
and now it's my second line After finishing it, I'll turn on 
the camera again I'll take some rest after planting
all the sweet potato plants In the early period of our debut, we gave my grandma
these signed CDs At that time, we wrote each of these lines This was from almost 10 years ago I wrote it like this My grandma is also packing kimchi for us to bring it home like this Open your mouth Lol, open my mouth? If I pass away you won't be able to get kimchi anymore Grandma, what are you talking about
you should live until 300 years old 300 years old Aigo I'm worried now if I could live 
until I get 100 years old After helping out my grandma... Okay, I'll take some rest now Aigo The floor of my grandma's house is the best I'll zoom in my grandma (TV: what are you doing now? (what a timing)) Grandma Say hello to the camera Bye bye
(go away for now) Grandma, what are you gonna do tomorrow? What you mean,
I just rest like this everyday Should Bo mi come next week as well? You? Aren't you busy though? No, I'm taking a rest these days Let's put up a tent in front of
our grandma's house and play Why put up a tent!
This house is so spaceous Why put up a tent
(the grandma's severe scolding) Then, are you gonna watch TV all day? Of course, I'm only watching TV all day Then, it's not fun though Although it's not fun, what should I do I can't go to that gathering place Okay guys, I came to eat dinner with my grandma and dad I was told that when this timer rings I should open the cover Clam hot pots? I'll open it (her dad is really happy lol) The clam Umm (this taste makes her dance naturally) Oh, what is it, it's cheese Guys, this is cheese actually The fish cake With the cheese (wow.. the visual..) Since we don't have 
any other things to give This one only has a large size 
since the amount is small Aigo, thank you It's a service (an impressive service) This is a crawfish How should I stick this one? Do I take this one out? Take it out I should take this one out? Yes Yes? No dad, you should take that one out (lol) Ah I could stick this one,
and wear it later I could take it off as it is,
and wear it tomorrow You can't take this one out forever (lol) Grandma, you're not gonna 
wash it as it is, huh? It's done It's pretty, grandma (chic) What flower is this? It's called money flower, money flower Ahh, why do you give me money No, I just put just a little bit amount, 
just a little bit You don't have to give me money It's night time now Grandma, please say goodbye 
in front of the camera Goodbye, farewell Farewell Farewell, peck chu Do it like this Then, I'll leave now,
goodbye It was Bo mi of Bbom Bbom Bbom until now 