“Trouble with the Wildlings?” “That's why they're
called ‘Wildlings’” The Wildlings represent
the importance of perspective in the Game of Thrones world. Through their story we see that there’s no such thing
as an objective historical narrative, and that we need to understand
multiple points of view to face the challenges
that threaten our society. From the beginning, we’re inundated with negative
rumors and stereotypes that frame our thinking about
the people who live north of the wall “All Wildlings are
liars and savages with no loyalty to
anything or anyone.” Even the name “Wildling”
is a derogatory term, used by those south of the wall. The Wildlings call themselves
“the Free Folk.” “What waits beyond the pass?” “The Free Folk.” “Wildling” makes us think
of a wild creature, a wild thing. So the implication is that
these people are seen as less than human. Samwell Tarly’s father Randyll
actually refers to Gilly as an “it.” “This you getting
back at me, boy? Hmm? Bringing that to my table
and making me dine with it?” When we first meet Free Folk
characters in Season 1, they’re living up to
the negative stereotypes, attacking young, disabled
Bran Stark in the woods But over time, the show opens
our eyes to a bigger picture. We realize that what
seems like brutal behavior is really just the will to survive
in their very harsh environment. “We're not here to conquer. We're here to hide
behind your Wall. Just like you.” Living beyond the Wall, the Free Folk are more vulnerable
to the White Walkers than anyone – they’ve been facing
this problem, while the skeptical Westerosi
have the luxury of denying the real and present danger. “The things you speak of… they've been gone for
thousands of years.” “They wasn't gone,
old man. They was sleeping” And these people are
the victims of history – they’ve been subjugated
for generations. “They're not your lands! We've been here
the whole time. You lot came along and just put up a big wall
and said it was yours.” Jon Snow embodies
the journey of discovery that we go on as viewers
getting to know the Free Folk. “The Free Folk would
have boiled him alive, but letting me kill him--” “The Free Folk? Listen to him. He even talks like
a Wildling now.” He might buy into
the negative talk about the Wildlings
in the beginning, but after firsthand experience, he changes his mind and
becomes their advocate “I was this man's prisoner once. He could have tortured me. He could have killed me. But he spared my life.” So this reminds us that
we need to take it upon ourselves to get the full story of what’s
happening in our world, instead of just trusting
the popular narrative. “I talk like a Wildling. I ate with the Wildlings. I climbed the Wall with the Wildlings.” In Season 7, Jon sends
Free Folk to man the Wall, and many of them are there
when the White Walkers breach it. They’re on the front lines
of the war now, set to play a crucial role
in the battle to come. “The White Walkers don't care
if a man's Free Folk or crow. We're all the same to them,
meat for their army. But together we can beat them” So let’s take a look at what
these strong, fiercely proud people teach us about the dangers of
clinging to a narrow point of view, and what it really means to be free. to sign up now! The Free Folk’s value system
is right there in their name – they believe in freedom above all. “What do you want then,
other than your miserable life?” “What all free people want. My freedom.” So what does it mean to be
“free” in this group’s eyes? To begin with, it’s not
living behind a wall. “But it seems to me as much
as the Wall keeps us out, it keeps you Southerners in. You follow ‘laws’
you didn’t make.” The Free Folk view
themselves as liberated, unencumbered by
the laws and restrictions of the Seven Kingdoms. They won’t blindly follow
a king based on his blood or because they’re
told they have to. In the first few seasons
they’re led by Mance Rayder, but they SELECTED him. “We don't go serving
some shit king who's only king
because his father was.” “No, you serve Mance Rayder,
the King beyond the Wall.” “We chose Mance Rayder
to lead us.” And in contrast to the monarchs
of the Seven Kingdoms, Mance is a leader with integrity. “A life's work uniting them. You didn't do it for power. You didn't do it for glory. You brought them
together to save them because none of them
will survive the winter, not if they're north of the Wall.” While the Westerosi are
obsessed with “bending the knee, “Bend the knee, my lord.” “You should kneel
before your brother.” “So I assume, my lord,
you’re here to bend the knee.” it’s central to
the Free Folk philosophy that they won’t kneel for anyone. “Stand, boy. We don’t kneel for anyone
beyond the Wall.” They even call those
south of the Wall “kneelers.” This refusal to kneel
symbolizes that, even if they might decide
to support a leader, they will never give up their
autonomy as free individuals. In Season 5, Mance will not kneel
to Stannis Baratheon, even though he’ll be burned
at the stake if he doesn’t. “I don't want people to
remember me like that, scorched and screaming. But it's better than betraying
everything I believe.” So this underlines what a deeply
proud people the Free Folk are – they’ll die for their principles. And Mance’s end illustrates that
the freedom they value so dearly is a freedom of
the mind and soul. “I think you're making
a terrible mistake.” “The freedom to make
my own mistakes was all I ever wanted.” Mance is a kind of mirror of Jon. He, too, started as a man
of the Night’s Watch and then joined the Free Folk. The key difference
between them is that Mance is a member
of the Free Folk by blood. “I've got Wildling blood
in my veins. These are my people.” Still, like Mance, Jon is CHANGED
by his experience north of the wall. He comes back frustrated by the narrowmindedness
he sees in the Watch. “He's united the Thenns,
the Hornfoots, the ice-river clans. He has giants fighting for him.” [Chuckles]
“Giants?” “Have you ever been
beyond the Wall, ser?” And as the Night King is revealed to
be the true threat facing all of mankind, Jon’s appreciation for
the Free Folk’s point of view is a crucial part of
the larger perspective he needs to become
a worthy King in the North. The Free Folk’s reluctance to serve
doesn’t mean they aren’t loyal. “We say we'll
do something, we do it.” Once someone earns their respect,
they commit wholeheartedly to that person, as we see in Tormund’s fierce
loyalty to Jon in later seasons. “He died for us. If we are not willing
to do the same for him, we're cowards. And if that's what we are, we deserve to be
the last of the Free Folk.” The Free Folk also live free of
the social codes and etiquette that dominate life
in the Seven Kingdoms. Jon’s love Ygritte may be
ignorant about Westeros “Is that a palace?” “It’s a windmill.” (and on some level
this makes her seem naïve), “Oh I’m Jon Snow
and I’m from Winterfell. My daddy was a fancy lord and I lived in a tower
that touched the clouds.” “If you were impressed
by a windmill, you’d be swooning if you saw
the Great Keep of Winterfell.” but her logic also
draws our attention to the sillier aspects
of Westeros society. “Is that how you lot
do your fighting? You march down the road banging drums
and waving banners?” “Most of the time, yes.” Hearing outsiders break
down these customs reminds us that many of
the social norms we’re witnessing are pretty arbitrary, “In civilized lands, you refer to
your betters by their proper titles.” “And what’s that?” “Lord.” “Why?” “Why? What do you mean, why?” just as many of
our cultural mores probably don’t make a lot of
sense on closer examination. “This is Stannis Baratheon, the one true King
of the Seven Kingdoms.” “We're not in
the Seven Kingdoms and you're not dressed
for this weather.” Ygritte is such an exciting partner
for Jon because she lives free of the social expectations
he takes for granted. “Why would a girl
see blood and collapse?” “Well… not all girls are like you.” This woman is a fighter. She’s nothing like
the fearful, feminine women Jon knew in the Seven Kingdoms. “I'd like to see you
in a silk dress.” “Would you?” “So I could tear it off you.” And in this relationship the traditional gender
roles are reversed -- HE’S the pretty boy “You like his pretty hair
and his pretty eyes…” and SHE’S the strong one. “I’m your woman now, Jon Snow. You’re going to be loyal
to your woman.” Whereas women fighting is an exception to the rule
in most of Westeros, “Looks like your woman
is getting the better of you… If you can call that a woman.” the Free Folk culture doesn’t
discourage women from joining in battle. [Grunts] “You’re a lucky man.” All his life, the restrictive
social codes of Westeros have reminded Jon of his status. “Lady Stark thought it might
insult the royal family to see the bastard
in their midst.” So this woman represents
liberation for Jon. “You think you’re
better than me, crow? I’m a free woman.” She makes him question
those restrictive expectations that haven’t served him well. “We can't make steel
as good as yours, it's true, but we're free. If someone tried to tell us we couldn't lie down
as man and woman, we'd shove a spear
up his arse.” And their relationship helps him
grow to see a bigger picture. Beyond any set
of accepted rules, he starts to process
the greater world through his own eyes and trust his own understanding. “Love is the death of duty… I told that to your friend
Jon Snow once.” While he remains
loyal to his people and to the central mission
of the Night’s Watch, “I have to go home now.” the way he develops in
his brief time with Ygritte shapes him forever. It gives him the courage to stay true to his own sense
of purpose as time goes on. In a similar way,
Gilly is a great match for Sam. “He's a greater warrior than
either of you will ever be.” These two strong Free Folk women
make their partners better by being so unconcerned with
superficial ideas of class or masculinity. “Girls see more blood than boys.” The Free Folk are also
a very diverse group. “They speak seven different
languages in my army. The Thenns hate
the Hornfoots. The Hornfoots hate
the ice-river clans. Everyone hates
the cave people.” We could imagine
this cultural diversity being an advantage
if they were better organized. Instead, their differences
create division and discord, stopping them from harnessing
their full strength as a people. So we see that there’s
a downside to the Free Folk putting such a premium
on freedom, as they’re too often engulfed
in chaos and disorganization. The 
Free Folk are fiercer, stronger, and more impressive than the people south of
the Wall in many ways. When we see them attack it’s clear they are
truly fearsome warriors. On a one-to-one basis, they can outfight almost
anyone south of the wall. “And even if every one of us
kills a hundred Wildlings, there’s still not a thing
we can do to stop them.” “I don’t think I could kill
a hundred Wildings.” Yet they lose time and time
again to these southerners. “Six times you've invaded
and six times you've failed.” To a large extent this failure
Comes from being unlucky enough to be on the wrong side of
the Wall when it was built. “They were born on
the wrong side of the Wall. That doesn't make
them monsters.” “A long time ago, they say, some old Southern king
enslaved our giants by magic, and forced them to
build your famous Wall. Then he kicked all of
my kind to the other side, and raised an army
to keep us there. And we’re the uncivilized ones?” So the Free Folk parallel Native Americans and
other indigenous peoples who were wiped out
(or nearly wiped out) by invaders with superior
technology and weapons. The Free Folk believe the earth
was made for everyone. “Our gods are of the forest, in the trees that shelter us
and the rivers that feed us. They gave the land
for all of us to share.” That’s why they don’t have
property rights or very many laws but the flipside of this is that
they’ve been taken advantage of by those who do believe
in dominating land. There’s a tragedy to this group. They are fighting for land that
they had generations ago and probably will never get back. “Maybe one day
I'll take you to Winterfell.” “Or maybe one day
I'll take you there. After we've taken
our land back.” In Season 3, Ygritte is
surprised that Jon knows the history of the Free Folk
attacking the Seven Kingdoms. “And how do you know that?” “Every boy in the North knows it. We grow up learning it. Where the battles were fought, the names of the heroes,
who died where.” This reminds us that history
is written by the victors. No doubt the authorities
of the Seven Kingdoms are teaching their kids a one-dimensional,
highly prejudiced account. “I can assure you that the closest
Maester Faull ever got to a Wildling was this very library.” which leaves out
the Free Folk’s side of the story “Imagine the stories
the Wildlings tell about us.” At the same time, this
moment between the lovers underscores that the Free Folk
don’t teach their children history, and we can see that this lack
of an organized education is a disadvantage. The more highborn a member
of Westeros society is, the better they know their history. “It wasn't just Aegon
riding his dragon. It was Rhaenys and Visenya, too.” “Correct. A student of history, are you?” This knowledge is not
just a status symbol, it’s also an opportunity
for a level of insight that’s not available to those
who are looking at the world blind without the benefit of learning
from humankind’s past. And indeed, the Free Folk’s
strengths as individual fighters are wiped out by
their strategic weaknesses “Killing crows in
their castles is tough. Killing them out here in the open,
that’s what we do.” As Jon reminds Ygritte, even if a lot of Westerosi
customs seem dumb, they’ve allowed the Seven Kingdoms
to repeatedly dominate the Free Folk. “You don't have the discipline. You don't have the training. Your army is no army. You don't know how
to fight together.” “You don’t know that!” “I do!” Lack of education or
an advanced justice system leaves the weak
vulnerable to exploitation by those who are stronger. Just look at how
Free Folk patriarch Craster marries and impregnates
his own daughters. “He marries his daughters and
they give him more daughters. And on and on it goes.” Because Craster’s family
lives off the grid, these young women have no protection
from this man who abuses them, and gives their baby sons
to the White Walkers. “A gift for the gods. A gift for the gods.” “A gift for the gods.” After Gilly escapes from
Craster’s Keep in Season 3, her relationship with
Sam is satisfying to her because she was
raised to be ignorant “Our father used to tell us that no Wildling ever looked
upon the Wall and lived.” and he opens her up
to a world of knowledge. “You know all that from
staring at marks on paper?” Stannis’ daughter Shireen
teaches Gilly to read and we see how her newfound
literacy pays off when, in Season 7, she’s the one who reads
about Rhaegar Targaryen’s secret wedding. “Maynard says here that he issued
an annulment for a Prince ‘Ragger’ and remarried him to
someone else at the same time in a secret ceremony in Dorne.” The bias against Wildlings is so
deeply ingrained in the Westerosi that it really has very little to do with
direct contact with the Free Folk. It’s about hating the idea
or the myth of the Wildlings “My father doesn't like Wildlings. He hoped I'd make a man of myself
by ‘killing some bloody Wildlings,’ so it's probably a good subject
to avoid if at all possible.” When we see a member
of the Free Folk spend time with
the Westerosi, genuine bonds develop. “Keep this one safe. He means the world to me.” and it’s clear there’s no real,
fundamental difference between these peoples. “I have the blood
of the First Men. My ancestors lived here,
same as yours.” “So why are you fighting us?” and they even
worship the same gods “You hear them, boy? The Old Gods are answering you.” “What are you doing here?” “They're my gods too.” The animosity between
the Free Folk and the Watch might remind us of other deeply
entrenched generational conflicts powered by hatred. The history of bad blood
is just so long it’s almost impossible to imagine
these people overcoming it. “They burned my village. They put an arrow
through my father's head right in front of me. They butchered my mother,
everyone I ever knew.” But all that changes when
the threat of the Long Night provides a very
urgent need to unify. “The Free Folk
can't stop them. The Night's Watch
can't stop them. And all the southern Kings
can't stop them. Only together, all of us.” This tells us that perhaps the only
way to transcend histories of hate is through uniting
for a greater cause, or against a common enemy. And in fact, like
the highborn Westerosi, we can get an extra
insight into this picture by looking far back enough
in the history books. There’s actually a precedent for the Free Folk and
the Starks uniting before. Legend has it that a Lord Commander
of the Night’s Watch married a White Walker woman
and made himself the “Night’s King” (not to be confused with
the Night King of this present story.) For years the couple ruled over the men of the Night’s Watch
at Castle Black, until Joramun,
the first King Beyond the Wall, banded together with
the Starks to eliminate them and this history may foreshadow that the Starks and the Free Folk
teaming up again will be crucial in the fight against this Night King. After all, there is a definite sense
that history repeats itself in the Game of Thrones world, which is why it’s so necessary
to know the history in the first place. We need a greater perspective to understand how the different
pieces of the puzzle fit together. “All I learned is that
the Children of the Forest used to hunt with dragonglass.” “Keep reading, Samwell Tarly.” History also tells us that
a mysterious object called the Horn of Winter,
or the Horn of Joramun, could come into play
in the events ahead. The Horn is believed to have
the power to bring down the Wall, which isn’t so relevant now, but it may have more
significance than we yet know. On the show, we see
Sam find a horn along with the dragonglass
in Season 2, but so far there’s no indication
that this is the Horn of Winter. We all remember Ygritte’s
frequent refrain to Jon, “You know nothing,
Jon Snow.” “You know nothing,
Jon Snow.” “You know nothing,
Jon Snow.” “You know nothing,
Jon Snow.” but this line isn’t
just about him. It also has a bigger
cultural symbolism. It signifies that the Westerosi
don’t have the full story. And life beyond the Wall is
full of not just more danger, but also more magic than
the Seven Kingdoms can imagine. If you look at them
with unbiased eyes, the Free Folk are
admirable survivors, and there is even
a positive spin to the “Wildling” name. “It’s not a very nice word,
I suppose.” “I don’t know. It makes me sound
a bit dangerous, doesn’t it?” Being a little wild
can be a great thing. Through the Free Folk, we see
that how a story is told matters. “Old Nan said they turn
your skull into a cup and make you drink
your own blood from it. That’s all Nan said.” Biased storytelling has made
those on either side of a wall needlessly hate each other, giving us a cautionary tale
about the danger of division. “You need to stay away
from that girl.” “Why?” “She's a Wildling.” If we spend our time hating
someone we’d actually like if we got to know them personally, that’s a huge waste of
energy and resources considering we may have
real enemies out there who threaten
our very existence. “We can learn to live
with the Wildings or we can add them
to the army of the dead.” So, like Jon Snow,
we must be willing to travel, to look back at our own culture with
the benefit of a broader perspective. And be open to admitting that
we did know nothing once. “Do you trust me, Jon Snow?” “Does that make me a fool?” “We’re fools together now.” 