Concert VCR Shooting Set! Shuhua is Filming First I opened a perfume store. I'll make a choco perfume today. Now~ (Mix the perfume) Perfumer Shushu is Engrossed
into Her Role (Startled!) (Sniffing) Actually, it's just water! (Pretending to be perfume) Ready to Shoot! Excitingly~ With Exciting Music
Shuhua's Individual Cut Shooting Starts! How did I look? <<Director
Very nice~ (Satisfied Director)
Thank you. I'm glad the director praised me a lot. Shushu is Checking Her Looks
Through the Camera What's That~? What's that? Why are you so pretty! You're too pretty~~! Displaying Pureness to the End,
She Finished the Shooting! (It's done~) Shushu is Monitoring I did so well.
(Self-praise) Nobody can act better than me. I think the big sisters
should do their best. What's that? She's Acting to Hear
Yuqi's Voice from Somewhere Yuqi, good luck~ Next Runner is Yuqi! (Well...) Bluffing~ I'm doing next to you for a reason. If it's over too soon,
it won't be interesting, huh? Yuqi, do you know what you'll do? Yuqi>>
A famous line! Yuqi Already Started Acting I won't let you know it! It's a secret.
(Mean) Song Yuqi, I'm Watching You... My student Yuqi began shooting. What time is it now?
I have to start! 11:20 Now,
Starting What? Yuqi just promised. If she shoots more than 2 hours, she'll call me Big Sis. That's what she promised me. Let's see how it gone(?)! From now. Can Yuqi Finish Her Shooting
Within 2 Hours? It's Yuqi's Shooting Turn Now! (Dancing) (I) Pro! With Pro's Aura, Yuqi's Approaching This year... The award for a rookie actress. Song Yuqi is Aiming
at Rookie Award of I-TALK Well, Ms. Yeh Shuhua... Are you watching it now? Watch me and learn. A Warning to the Rival (Song Pro's Excessive Immersion) Listening Carefully to the Director Yuqi is Immersed in Acting I've seen an amazing scene now.
(Short Break Time) Follow me, guys. Found Yeh Shuhua Sprawling Out
While Sleeping (Go away) Teacher~
You must monitor your student's acting! Did you do it for more than 2 hours? 2 hours? It's been 20 minutes! Haha Still a Lot of Time Left~
Shuhua's Sleeping Again... (Gathering the clothes) (Noisy) (Is it a lullaby or not...) (Bug off) A Hand Signal to Kill Her
If She Doesn't Keep Her Mouth Shut Everybody praises me with my good acting. Oh, really~~ Since Sleepy, Shuhua Praises Soullessly After Awakening,
Shushu's Self-cam Now, Yuqi has only 5 minutes left. In 5 minutes... No, in 4 minutes! 2 hours of her will be up. Yuqi is Still Shooting Yuqi...! You only have 4 minutes left~ A Few Minutes Later Very Timely
Yuqi's Shooting Finished It's not fair! Shuhua failed~ What? You promised to call me Big Sis
if you shot it over 2 hours. Sad            Happy (That way, Shuhua couldn't be Big Sis) This is my capability, guys~ The Third Runner
of the Shooting is Soojin~ With the Bobbed-hair,
Soojin Looks Cool & Fresh Oh~ The makeup is lighter today~ Something... I had this hairstyle
in middle school and in high school... In the 1st grade in high school... <<Director
Action! (Startled)
Acssion? (Trudging) Soojin is Acting Hard (Spraying perfume and feeling its taste) (Awkward) (Approaching her to ask the awkward face) What did you express
with that awkward face? What should I do...? I wanna go home. I'm in trouble now. I think it'll be a long day for me. Soojin's Shooting Continues Monitoring I can imagine it now. My fans will tease me
after watching it... I wanna go home... Miyeon Appears Sitting Together
and Monitoring Soojin's Acting You'll be embarrassed more
while watching it, right? A Normal Reaction
While Watching the Fellow's Acting (Ashamed) Cringing So Much While Monitoring Now, Acting the Scene
Making Cocktail Coolly Pouring Out the First One Confidently Pouring Out the Second Skillfully The Third The Fourth Huh? Great~ Soojin Finished
the Cocktail Making Scene Skillfully OK at Once~! Good for me...! Soosoo Managed to Finish the Shooting (She seems exhausted...) What a relief~! Since I've done the individual shots,
the rest will be okay, I think. (Sigh~) I won't be an actress...! The Fourth Runner is Miyeon! Shooting the Scene
with the Gorgeous Grand Piano Short Break Time in the Middle of Shooting One day, I looked at my selfies. I noticed my pose and my face
were all the same. So, I need to study it! Miyeon's Selfie Signature Pose This pose or this one all the time. Guys! Give me some ideas~ This one? (Somehow, it fits her well) Recently, NEVERLAND says
Miyeon is so funny. (Tough-looking)
Who and which NEVERLAND said that? I've never been funny. But if you keep saying I'm funny... I feel burdensome
that I have to make you laugh. (Don't try to make us laugh
because you're just funny) It means you like it, huh? If you like it I'm just satisfied with it. Give it to me! Suddenly, a Skit Begins (Giving the apple) It looks yummy~ (Having a bite of the apple) (Hmm? Strange taste?) (Collapsing) (What... Acting Snow White?) You can't say it's acting. It's rather a gag! She Said She's Not Funny Character
But She's Practicing a Comedy Show <<Director
Miyeon, the last cut! Ah...! Gosh! Oh! (Definitely Funny Character) (Hehe) Finishing the Last Cut Successfully~ Soyeon is the Fifth Runner! (Found the camera) (Tease-ya) (Feeling of being tricked somehow) Practicing to Light the Match Got it! (Thud) Huh? It's broken... (Disconcerted) 1st Try 2nd Try 3rd Try 4th Try Only Smoking Without Lighting Lighting a candle is so hard for me. Lighting it is harder than I thought. (Sniffing)
Strange... Fingering
Soyeon is Curious about the Vinyl Leader Sso is Putting the Keys Together
to the Shape of I-DLE Soyeon's Individual Cuts Are Finished~ Minnie is the Last Runner
of the Individual Shooting Set to Find I-LAND Star
through the Telescope (Flashing) Huh? No way... I-LAND?
(Open the eyes wider) (Popping the eyes) (Flashing)
No way...! I-LAND~? (Hehe) Acting I'll do my best! Oh~ It's really amazing! For the solo performance,
I'll sing 'Why do you love me?' The prop spoils it a bit here. It's my first time to see it for real. What can I call it? A Telescope A Telescoper... Yontararak Has a Deep Relation with Telescope I saw one of these in the drama
. It's my first time to see it for real. Excited Puppy Looking
at the Telescope for the First Time Minnie's VCR Shooting Starts! Stormy Acting Miyeon is Here
to Monitor Minnie's Acting (Sulky) Reason: Minnie just told her to go away. (Sad)
I came here to cheer her up
but she told me to go away. (Turning fast) I will never monitor your acting! I did my best monitoring her acting using my break time. But she told me to go away.
Sad Puppy Sister... As the senior of acting...
(Shot a few hours earlier) I came here to cheer her up. But she told me to go away...! I'll go...! Today Again, the Puppy Sisters
Are Squabbling Again Finally, the Group Cut! Soojin disappeared?   (Boo!) (Soojin is hiding there) Look~ Soojin and I are
wearing a couple-look today! Which one? (Doesn't look like a couple-look at all...) (Brazenly)
It's a couple-look. The same length. And the clothes are the same! The First Fashion Girl Wants
to Have a Couple Look with Soosoo We'll pretend you're right! Looking similar in a way... Huh? Those two look similar~ (Waving her hand) Oh, no~~ Soojin Copies Shuhua Yuqi is Coming on to Leader Sso Seriously, don't touch me. (Found the camera)
The camera's here? Making a Straight Face to Yuqi
and Suddenly Greeting Brightly Gotcha!
Soyeon's Double Life Miyeon did something just now. Show it again. Miyeon? The Scene of Slapping Argh~! Bling Bling~ Perfect Ending! Real Acting Ver. (Falling down) The Youngest are Performing
the Action Seriously Did you see it? Yuqi was... (Hit here, hit here!) (Here, here, here!!!) Harmony Matters Most in Action Performance Miyeon>>
Do it with Minnie! Minnie Challenges Action Performance We have some lines! (Feat. Jeon Soyeon)
- Did you cheat on me? - Yes! (Naively) (Turning~) 'Yes!" (Confidently) (Confident)
Because I love someone else more! Talking about...
Me? (Angry)
That's not true! Living As Actresses All Day Long I can't take it!
She can't leave me・ This girl is as strong as an ox...! Miyeon is Being Pushed Out of the Angle
Like a Falling Leaf (Ashamed)
Oh, no~~ The Little Ones are Creating the Mood (Turning...) It's Like Being Hit by a Flower... (Angry)
Are you crazy? (Screaming)
I said I wouldn't do it~!!! Don't Hit Soojin Even with a Flower...
Protect Soojin... VCR Shooting Only Left the Group Cut (Wink) Zoom In by the Sudden Attack of the Wink~ Guys, Receive Jeon Jelly's Wink (Rollicking) Soyeon>> Hey!
Stay still! (Sulky) Maltese Got Scolded While Rollicking 'I-LAND: WHO AM I' Concert VCR
They Finished the Shooting Successfully! 