- I don't know if you've ever noticed this but it seems like sometimes in life, the more you want something, the harder it is to get. This seems to be the case
with starting a business or writing a book or any
of these big life plans we always dream about. Seems like the more we fantasize about these types of things, the more we procrastinate
doing anything about them. But there's a very
specific reason for this and it is brilliantly explained in probably one of the
best books I have ever read in my life called, "The War
of Art" by Steven Pressfield. So in this book, Steven
Pressfield explains that there is a psychological
force that is working against you every single day of your life and is intimately involved in
every decision that you make whether you're aware of it or not. And the sole purpose of
this force is to keep you from reaching your potential,
it's called resistance. Now whether we've called
it resistance or not, we've all definitely felt
it usually in the form of it's sort of internal
tension that you feel whenever you think about
doing something constructive whether it's picking up a
paintbrush to start painting or opening the Word doc
to start writing the essay you've been procrastinating forever, resistance will be there
to rear its ugly head because resistance prevents progression. If there were no such thing as resistance, we would all be living
according to our highest ideals. If we knew it was our
mission to write a book, we would just start writing. If we knew that it was
in our best interest to do cardio, sail faster on
ice when you played hockey, we would just do cardio,
whenever we thought of it, we would just do cardio, there
would be nothing stopping us. But unfortunately, every
single time we think about doing something constructive, resistance starts to inject
itself into our being without us even realizing it. It's an automatic process and
it happens every single time. So for example, pretend you're
wasting time playing X-Box or something and you've been
playing for a couple of hours and the thought dawns
on you to go to the gym because it's Monday and
Monday's international Chest Day or religious holiday and
you really should hit chest, it's the right thing to do. But since it's the right thing to do and it is integral for your
growth as a human being, at least in that area of life, you will encounter resistance. First, it usually takes the
form of physical discomfort. When you think about going to the gym while you're wasting time on X-Box, the thought of going to the gym becomes very physically uncomfortable. You start to tense up,
you start to win set the thought of doing
something more uncomfortable than the thing you're currently doing, which is interesting
because once you're actually at the gym, it's not that bad. In fact, it's pretty fun and
you feel really fulfilled and you feel like you're
accomplishing something but in that moment,
when you're wasting time going to the gym seems like a monster. It seems like something you
definitely don't want to do, that is resistance. And since human beings like to stay intellectually consistent, resistance will start
to creep into your mind in the form of rationalization. You need any sort of good
reason not to encounter this physical pain of going to the gym. Maybe you think about the fact that since it's Monday and
International Chest Day, everybody is going to be
doing chest on Monday. So there's gonna be a huge
lineup for the bench press. Besides, you went to the gym last week and it takes a lot longer than one week for you to lose all your gains and for your muscles to deteriorate so it's probably not a big deal
if you just skip this week. You've been pretty good
up until this point and you kind of deserve a break. Maybe you're familiar with this
type of pattern of thinking and it's actually really
common and it's resistance but here's something I find
a little bit more disturbing. It seems like the more
important something is for your growth as a human being, the more powerful resistance
will be stopping you from doing it. A great example of this
is me and this channel. When I first started
off making these videos, it was just a hobby. But as you guys started
watching more and more and I've started to develop an audience, it is now become my
most viable career path. Sponsors are reaching
out, things are happening, the audience is growing and it's great but because of that fact,
resistance is stronger than ever. And for me, resistance takes
the form of perfectionism. Whenever I sit down to write a video, I always feel like I have
to outdo the last one. It has to be the perfect video
with the perfect be roll. And it really becomes
a barrier to uploading as frequently as I would like. And as I've started to
reread "The War Art" by Steven Pressfield, I start to realize that this type of thinking
is just resistance. Resistance never goes away. You always hear about famous
singers and performers and comedians who still get really nervous before they go on stage. They encounter resistance even
though they've been doing it for decades even. So what's their response. So they just not go on stage. Of course not, their careers will be over but what the most
successful people do instead is they get really good at
automatically breaking past this resistance as it presents itself. And the better you get at doing this, the more efficient you'll
be at doing the right thing instead of the comfortable thing. Because when you just sit down to write or when you just put on the running shoes or when you just hit record, something magical happens,
words start to flow, endorphins start to run, inspiration starts to
magically descend upon you and all the pieces sort of fall together. The proper response to resistance is to just start the thing anyways. Once you start realizing that
whatever rationalizations you have for not doing the
thing you know you have to do is just resistance. You can gain the mental clarity to just do the thing anyways. And as you become more
familiar with resistance and seeing it for what it is, you can really start to
use resistance as a guide. Since resistance is most powerful, the more important something is, it's a great compass leading
you to where you need to go. And as you win these
battles with resistance, day by day, month by
month and year by year, the life you live will become bigger than the unlived life within you. And you'll eventually start
living the kind of life you actually want to be living. Like I mentioned at the
beginning of the video, this entire video was
based on "The War of Art" by Steven Pressfield. The book that I recommend the
most to people is this book. If you liked this video,
make sure to hit like because when you like it, the algorithm blesses me
with shoving this video in front of other people's
faces, helping them out and I feel like this is an important video that people kind of need nowadays. It'll knock them off their YouTube binge and set them on the right path. And if you're lurking here, consider subscribing and
hitting the bell icon. So you don't miss videos
like these in the future. Lots of awesome content coming up, I'm really excited for some
of these future videos, make sure to stay tuned for those. Thank you for watching and I'll catch you in the next video. (mellow music) 