There’s lots of physics going on in raindrops:
cohesion, adhesion, air resistance – I mean, falling raindrops often look more like
jellyfish than teardrops – but perhaps most fascinating is the physics that makes raindrops
impossible. You might think making a raindrop is easy
– just cool water vapor in the air past its condensation point, and it condenses into
liquid droplets, right? But there’s a big problem standing, almost
literally, in the way: the surface of the droplets themselves. Liquids hate surfaces – they're bound by
the laws of intermolecular attraction to pull together in an attempt to minimize the size
of their surfaces. That’s why small water droplets are spherical,
why you can put a huge amount of water on a penny, and why bubbles form the crazy shapes
they do. The technical way of saying this is that surfaces
require more free energy to make than volumes. For example, when you’re condensing water
in saturated air from a gas to a liquid, every cubic centimeter VOLUME of water you make
releases energy just from its change of volume and pressure – roughly enough to lift an
apple a meter into the air. But to make each square centimeter of the
SURFACE of that water requires an INPUT of energy – not much, but it's equivalent to
lifting a fortune cookie fortune 1 centimeter. For large amounts of water, the energy you
get from the volume, which is proportional to the radius cubed, is more than enough to
make up for the energy cost due to the surface area, which is proportional to the radius
squared. Cubing tends to make things bigger than squaring. BUT for really small radii, the opposite is
true – cubing a small number makes it smaller than squaring it. This unavoidable mathematical truth means
that if a water droplet is below a certain size, then making it bigger requires more
surface area energy than is released from volume energy, meaning it TAKES energy for
the droplet to grow, so it doesn’t – it shrinks. For pure cubic and quadratic functions, this
equivalence point happens at 2/3 – that’s when x^3 starts growing faster than x^2, but
for water droplets it’s somewhere around a few million molecules; way too many to randomly
clump together in less than the age of the universe! And thus, raindrops are impossible for the
precise mathematical fact that x squared grows faster than x cubed – for small numbers. Ok, so obviously raindrops exist, but if you
want to know HOW they sidestep this battle between quadratics and cubics, you’ll have
to go watch MinuteEarth’s video about how raindrops form. 