- Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. In this video, I'm gonna
be sharing eight tips that I find helpful for
reading more consistently. So these days, I'm averaging
about one or two books every week and this is alongside my full time job of being a doctor and my part time career
of being a YouTuber and running a business on
the side, all this stuff but the point is that I find
the time to read in my routine. And I think over the
last sort of eight years of reading a lot that's added
so much value to my life as usual timestamps to all of these are gonna be in the video description and in a pinned comment, so you can skip around the
video if you feel like it. But now let's get started. (soft music) So point number one is that
you should get a Kindle. Like there is some evidence
I'll link it down below if I can find it that says
that people in America who use e-readers read about
40 or 50% more books per year than people who don't use e-readers. And the Kindle is amazing. I've been reading absolutely
everything on Kindle since like 2008 so a very long time. Yeah, it just completely
transforms the reading experience. That's all I'm gonna say on that front. I've made about three other
videos where I talked about how amazing it is having a Kindle so if you're not convinced so far, then please have a look at those videos. I'll link them down below but yeah, Kindle is absolutely game
changing when it comes to reading more consistently and everyone that I have hammered this recommendation
down the throat of has bought Kindle has said to me later on that Oh, I'm really glad I got the Kindle because now I read so much more. And it's just completely worth it. So yeah, 100% get a Kindle. Point number two is kind
of like a mindset shift. And I found that when I
developed this mindset, it kind of changed the game for me much like getting a Kindle. And that was the mindset that it's okay not to finish a book. Previously, I had this view of
like books being this sacred, prestigious object that if I
was kind of reading a book, I would have to finish it before
I move on to the next one, even if I found it boring. And there are so many
people I've spoken to over the last few months when
we like talk about reading and consistency and stuff, coz this is the sort of stuff I talk about who say that oh, you know,
I've been reading "Sapiens" for the last 18 months and just haven't gotten around to finishing it. And yet, every time I sit down to read, I feel guilty that I
haven't finished "Sapiens" then I tried reading
it and then I get bored after half a page and I close
it and then go to sleep. You know, the obvious
solution there is to just close "Sapiens" put it away or you know, delete it from your Kindle library and just read something else. In a way we're sort of treating
books more like blog posts, if you were reading a blog post or you know on someone's blog, you wouldn't feel the sense of shame if you didn't get to the end of it. It's kind of like a book, like you know, we should treat books much
like we treat articles or blog posts on the
internet, in my opinion. And when I internalized that mindset, I found it a lot easier
to read more consistently. (soft music) Thirdly, another kind of related note, it's also okay not to read classics. So this is again, a
thing that I used to have back in the day. This was ages ago where I
used to think, Oh you know, if I'm reading I should
read something good rather than just reread "Harry Potter" but then I realized
that actually, you know, who defines good? Who cares if the classics are classics because English literature
students study them, I don't really care I
wanna read for enjoyment and I wanna read for you know, to help my life get better. And so the advice I often
give to people is that when you're a beginner and reading, ie you don't read very
consistently, you know, the thing to start with
is not something like Charles Dickens even
though it's a good book or like Jane Eyre you
know, like these classics that people say are
good but that you know, or from a bygone era. The trick is to start
with something simple like "Harry Potter" or you
know, some great fantasy or fiction book that's easy to read that makes you wanna turn the page because once you get into
the habit of reading, then you can start exploring down the, exploring these avenues of these fancy ass English literature sort of
books like Charles Dickens and Shakespeare and all that stuff. Recently, I've read The
Psy-Changeling Series, which is a series of 16 books on the paranormal romance genre. And I absolutely love
these, these absolute trash but they're kind of fun, they're cool, the different characters,
they've got magical powers, they fall in love it
all that sort of jazz. I'm not thinking that, you
know, I'm not feeling guilty when I'm reading this thinking
that I'm reading trash. And I think because I've got this attitude of I don't care what I
read as long as I like it as long as it's good, then
that actually makes me read much more consistently
because it means that there isn't any of this baggage associated with having to struggle
through reading classes. (soft music) Point number four is also
semi related to that. And that is that it's okay
to skim through books. There was the thing I
came across in a podcast, I'll link it down below, where
the guy was talking about there being two modes of reading, number one where you're
reading for enjoyment and number two, where you're
reading for information or inspiration or that sort of stuff. And reading for enjoyment is
more like reading fiction. So if I'm reading for enjoyment, then I won't really care about you know, highlighting passages or
taking notes or whatever, because I'm reading for enjoyment I'm also okay with skipping bits of long bits of description. Like if I get the idea and if I'm really wrapped up in the story, I don't feel the need to
read absolutely every word. And then when I'm reading non-fiction, I'm not really reading it for enjoyment, although some of them are quite good but I'm more reading it for
information or education or inspiration, stuff like that. And so, my tactics for reading
that is a lot different, like A, am completely
okay to skim stuff as well B, I'll be looking for
things to highlight on Kindle because the Kindle
highlighting thing is amazing. C, I sometimes might even start by looking at the table of contents and just kind of scroll
through and see which bits of the book catch my eye. If there are bits of
the book that's boring. What I tend to do is just
kind of flick a few pages, eyeball some of the words
on subsequent pages, see if it's gonna get more
interesting and if not, I'll just close the book
and read something else. Like I'm treating these books exactly like I'm treating
articles or blog posts. I'm not feeling guilty for skimming or for not finishing one. (soft music) Point number five and this is
probably the most important thing after the getting a Kindle bit is that I find it really
helpful to build reading into my daily routine. So my nighttime routine consists
of me brushing my teeth, getting changed or
going naked depending on how I'm feeling on a particular day, getting into bed telling Alexa
to turn the lights to relax which is like a nice
like yellowy sort of... In fact, Alexa, turn on
relax in the living room. You know, it gives this sort of setup. Let's go back, Alexa, turn on Ice and Fire in the living room. There we go back to normal. So I put on relax, which
is like a nice warm I dim the lights to about
10% and I lie in bed, pick up my Kindle and I put my phone all the way across the room. I set the alarm for half
past six in the morning and I put the phone across the room. Which means the only thing
I can do when I'm in bed is either sleep or read on my Kindle through doing that for the
last like five, six years I just kind of read every
single night before bed. And I read until I feel tired, I feel my eyes beginning to
close and then I'm like great, I'm falling asleep, I'm
gonna close the Kindle, put it on the bedside table
and I will fall asleep. That is just the way I've built reading into my nighttime routine and
so it's pretty easy for me to finish, you know, one book a week because I'm reading for at
least sort of 20 minutes, half an hour each day. And if it's particularly
you know, gripping book, it'll keep me up until like
2:00, 3:00 in the morning and I'll be super glad that I did. And recently I've read
lots of books, "Bad Blood" "Shoe Dog" and "Third Door" in particular, that have kept me up way into the night because I've just enjoyed them so much. Point number six is that there
are loads of other occasions in which you can read even
when you're not reading. And here I'm gonna give
applaud to Audible, (soft music) Point number seven is that I think it's really helpful to
have an account on goodreads, which is also incidentally
owned by Amazon, who again, not sponsoring
this video, unfortunately but Goodreads is really
good because it's like the ultimate social network for books kind of in that they've got a library of every single book ever published. If for example, if you're
reading a book on Kindle, it automatically can add it
to your currently reading section on Goodreads. And then when you finish the book, it'll ask you to give a
rating and that automatically goes to your Goodreads account. And so over time you develop this library where you track every
book you've ever read. And if you want, you
can write a book review. You can read other people's book reviews, you can follow recommendations
that other people have. And so when I first got
a Goodreads account, I think it was like four
or five years ago now, I spent a day just racking
my brain and thinking back to every book I'd ever read and just adding it to
my Goodreads, sort of, I've read this book library
and I'm giving it a rating if I could remember
what the book was about. And now I've got like
300 and something books in this library and it
kind of becomes a game like when I wanna start a new
book, I get excited that yes, I'm adding it to my Goodreads library. And if I manage to finish the book, I feel excited that yes,
that's another book down. And it's just like a personal
game we play with ourselves. But I found that that is another
thing that's helped me read a lot more consistently. And if you guys are interested, I'll link my own Goodreads
profile in the video description. You can follow my profile,
you can add me as a friend, whatever that means. And you can see all the books
that I've rated five star, four star, three star, whatever and maybe that might help you
get some book recommendations if you're into that sort of thing. (soft music) And finally, point number eight is a service called read wise,
that's absolutely incredible. Read wise is a fantastic service because what they do is that they sync to your Amazon account and if you're like me, you
read everything on Kindle and if you have a lot of highlights, what it does is that it
sends you an email every day with five random highlights from random books that you've read. And so I find this to be
an absolutely amazing way to resurface content that
I had read in the past and I thought was legit
enough to be highlighted. But before discovering, read
wise, I didn't really have a way of actively going
through my highlights, like occasionally I'd
browse the Kindle app and go through my highlights
for a particular book if I was researching a blog
post or an email newsletter but now every single day I just
get an email from read wise and I read stuff and I'm like, oh, that quote from
"Happy" by Darren Brown or that quote from "Tools
of Titans" by Tim Ferriss actually applies to the thing I'm thinking about at the moment. So that's a fantastic way of
resurfacing the stuff that you've highlighted and reminding yourself of these life lessons that
you know if you're like me and you've read everything on Kindle then you highlight everything on Kindle, it's immensely valuable. Another cool thing about read
wise is that you can sync all your highlights to Evernote. So I've started doing that recently and so if I'm making a
video about productivity, I can just Ctrl + F
productivity on Evernote and that will include within
that search it would find me any quotes about productivity
that I've highlighted in various books. And I think at the moment I
have like 2000 highlights across hundreds of books on Kindle and therefore they're
all synced to read wise. And another great thing about Readwise is that if you read articles
online via Instapaper which is what I use and
you'll highlight stuff there, that also syncs to Evernote. So it's just kind of the ultimate way of building a second brain, whereby anything that
you think is good enough to be highlighted is then searchable whenever you wanna find something and that is another thing that's helped me read more consistently because now I feel excited
to highlight stuff. And whenever I come across
a new passage, I think yes, this goes in straight
to my Readwise library, it's gonna go into Evernote
and I'll be able to have this as a piece of wisdom that I can then call
upon whenever I need it. Those were my eight points on
how to read more consistently main thing, get a Kindle and build it into your
nighttime routine as you know, that's what I do, that's
what I'd recommend, but also recognize that it's
okay not to finish a book, it's okay to skim and it's
okay to not read the classics. You can just kind of
read whatever you want coz reading is supposed to be fun. It's not supposed to be this chore, this thing that we only had
to do in English lessons. So yeah, thanks for watching. I hope you found this video useful. If you did, I'll put a video over there or over there somewhere that will be a playlist of
some of my recommended reading. So I've got a video called
three books that changed my life and another video about three
recommended fantasy books that I listened to an audible
so you can check those out. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video bye bye. (soft music) 