(footsteps thumping) - Hello, you may be wondering
what I'm doing here. Oh, don't you worry little girl I'm simply practicing my
lines for, "I Am An Actor". - You look like a creepy old man. - Yeah, that was the
only part I could get. Okay, I may not be an actor. But I did go through a lot of art classes. You may be thinking that
others have already touched on this subject, but you what? I'm different from these bozos, 'cause I-- - Don't have eyes? - No, well, I mean yeah,
but that's not what I was-- - Wait, I know, it's because you're brown. - Oh my god, no. Why are you bringing race into this? - Oh, is it 'cause your
videos are garbage? (sniffs) - They're not garbage. (cries) - But for real, it's actually
because I went to this art-centric middle school. They really wanted the
students to experience all of what creative arts had to offer. So they implemented a
system where in eighth grade you would rotate between the four major art disciplines each term. They consisted of, visual art. You know, the art class
everybody knows about. Music. (trumpet plays) Media/Digital tech. - I'm in. And Drama. What is up dramaaz-alert nation? I'm your host, Killer Maa-- And whilst I'm grateful for the experience looking back at it, these art
classes were the biggest meme. Because it was such basic,
rudimentary level art we all honestly did jack all that year. Take my music class for example. I mean, after watching
the Rachrab Diss track the Timtom rap battle
and the famous MAAZ rap I think it's clear to see that
I'm pretty musically gifted. Denial is the first step of
grief in the five step process. For that term of music,
we had a choice between learning the piano or learning the guitar. And I'm gonna be honest, I
kinda only picked the guitar because I thought it'd make
me more attractive to girls. (laughs) I was such a loser, holy. Okay, side tangent, that's
actually a recurring reason for a lot of my childhood decisions. See, I would watch
these high school movies which had all the pretty white boys. And they all had these one
sided smirk things going and the girls obviously loved that. - Oh my god, take my heart. - So for years, I tried my
hardest to get my own smirk which may have worked on
one side, but on the other I look like I had a minor stroke. And so, with my lopsided
smile I spent an entire term practicing my guitar skills
to pick up the Ladies. (chuckles) Man, looking back at it I wasn't even learning a romantic song. I'm pretty sure I was
learning, "Ode to Joy". (guitar playing) Oh yeah, girls are
totally gonna love this. - I'm glad you haven't drawn me with eyes so I can't see how ridiculous you look. But at least I was confident
enough to play guitar in front of the class. Unlike drama, where I had
absolutely no confidence and was convinced that
I was a terrible actor. But you see guys (laughs)
I have a life hack for you. If you can't act well,
just have them write a role specifically for bad acting. Like, a background character or a tree. - Okay Janika, you're killing it. Melvin, you keep channeling
your inner Johnny Depp. Maaz just act like a drunk hobo. (sniffs) - I was destined for this. (laughs) - You know what they say,
if you can't act well, die. One time, I legitimately
wrote myself a role for a guy that gets in
a car accident and dies. (car engine roaring) (screeching) (crashing) (truck hooting) (farts) - Dude, acting is so easy. - It's funny because the drama teacher actually pulled me aside and told me that I wasn't that bad of an actor and I just needed more
confidence in myself. That was honestly so sweet of him to say. And it instilled a passion
of drama and acting in me for years to come. I even did theater during university. Like I was on-stage and everything. - "If you prick us, do we not bleed? "If you tickle us, do we not laugh? "If you poison us, do we not die? "And if you wrong us, shall we not rev--" - Yeah, you.
(smack) Okay, that's cute honey, but I'm an actor. The next year I was moved to scriptwriting and had no time on stage. So maybe my teacher was a
lying son of a, visual art Alright, so I'm just
gonna gloss over this one because not a lot happened
during this class. I know it's the medium that I
spend the most time doing now but, art had a lot more writing analysis than I thought it would. Actually, I'm pretty sure I was justifying more than I was actually doing art. However, that was nothing
compared to Digital/Media Tech. Now, the name of the class is awful but it basically covered film, television gaming and digital art. I remember this one assignment we had which was to basically analyze a TV show and provide reasoning as to why people either loved or hated it. This project was the best because it allowed me and my
brother the perfect excuse to run down to Blockbuster,
rent out five seasons of "How I Met Your Mother", and
binge it all in a few days. - [TV] The ultimate way... (door clicks) - [Mom] Hey guys, it's
getting pretty late. Maybe you should go to
bed and rest up for-- - Shut the door mom, gosh do
you even care about my grades? - Yeah, mom. (door slams) (crying) - And that's why "How I Met Your Mother" is one of my favorite
TV shows to this day. And why my mom goes to therapy. So, here's what I actually
learned in my art classes. Improvement and skill is not linear and shouldn't be compared as such. This is relevant for people like me who compare themselves to other people and get really distressed when they're not on an equal playing field. But let me tell you
something, now "TheOdd1sOut". Does he have the best
visuals in our community? - Yes. - What about the most interesting stories? - Yes! And is he more animated than the others? - Yes! - No, he isn't. - What?
- You see what I'm getting at? Even though he's not the
best when it comes to all of these factors,
he's still number one in our community. - Dang right I am. - And it's all because he's got his own unique blend of skills that really showcases what he can do. His art style. When you judge yourself to
another person's art style or sense of humor, you're
comparing something unique that you alone have on their field. So, of course you're going to be upset and feel like you're inferior to them. That's just not a valid comparison. And I know it's way easier said than done. But I can assure you, if you knuckle down and really focus on what you're doing and try to establish your own style I think that'll lead you to more happiness and creative fulfillment in the longterm. It is hard, but you'll
eventually get there. I used to be a saddest boy for life. But now? Not only am I able to fulfill
my creative urges again but I'm also fortunate enough to have this fantastic channel and to be the Maaztermind
with all of you guys. My Maartians, our fan base and strongest alien army known to man. And I know we're all waiting
to take over the world and defeat the Laddis,
but in the mean time why not promote some of you
to become Super Maartians? So, I wanna give a
shout-out to Jentry Lewis Aldo Gameplay and UnderTale Grillby. You guys are now all Super Maartians the brave soldiers who
will lead us to battle. If you wanna have a chance for a shout out make sure to subscribe,
hit the notification bell like the video, and comment "I have turned on the bell
and am a Super Maartian." And thank you audience for watching. Okay, so I know this
wasn't a super crazy topic but I had a lot of fun making it and I hope you liked it too. Major thanks to my best buddy Emily whom I have no beef with, for
voicing some of the characters in this video. You're an absolute legend. All right, if you liked the story make sure to click on the video on the left side of the screen and you'll get some more
of that Maazie goodness. And finally, I'd like to
give a major shout out to my patron and original
tea poser (mumbles) Yes, that's his name. All right, laters everybody,
and stay aMaazing. 