Let’s see, guidelines for information and
communication technology supply chain security, preparation and characterization of Charpy
V-notch test pieces for indirect verification of pendulum impact machines, methods for the
assessment of departure from roundness, this is going to be a good episode because its
about standardization, or rather, more specifically, ISO standard 3103, the internationally standard
way of preparing a cup of tea. First a bit of context. Way off in Geneva, Switzerland is this place,
the International Organization for Standardization. A place that, according to this google reviewer,
is filled with “snobby eurocrats,” but according to Urban Dictionary “eurocrat”
is a not so nice word for officials running the European Union but the people in this
building are not working for or with the European Union at all so this review is false. That’s because the ISO is a supranational
organization—its above governments. 162 countries worldwide are members—Canada,
Egypt, Japan, Panama, Peru, Finland… just kidding I’m not going to list them all but
I will show you this super-quick list because I don’t have the budget to animate a map
of the countries. All of the members, except for these ones
have their own organization of standards. For example, the US has the American National
Standards Institute, France has the Association Française de Normalisation, and Japan has
the… uhhh, Japanese Standards Association? This organization has created common standards
for 21,802 products, objects, and processes so that things can work all across the world. For example, one of the best known ISO standards
is for this—the shipping container, also known as the ISO container. The standardization and implementation of
this container literally made it possible for manufacturers to make products on one
side of the world and ship them to the other. That’s because, no matter where you go in
the world, ships, cranes, trains, and trucks will all be made to work with this one size
of container. If every country or shipping company made
their own container sizes, just imagine the amount of logistics it would take to get a
container from continent to continent. Thanks to ISO standard 668 you know that every
shipping container in the world will be exactly eight feet wide. There’s even an ISO standard on how to run
a standards organization, but just like anything, ISO standards are not free, and they're not
even cheap. For example, for all 12 parts of ISO standard
26262, about road vehicle safety, you’ll have to shell up $1,600. But back to the cup of tea, ISO standard 3103. I knew any ISO standard with a controversy
section on Wikipedia would make a good video so I spent $40 plus shipping to get this four
page document on how to make a cup of tea, because I hate money. It starts out by making a few definitions
and then tells you what you need—a pot and bowl. If you go to the annex you learn that the
larger pot has to have a maximum capacity of 310 ml plus or minus 8 ml and the small
pot 150 ml plus or minus 4 ml. You even get a page showing the exact dimensions
of the pots and bowls you should use for this standard tea preparation. The exact tea preparation process is pretty
standard until you get to this part: “prepare the liquid as described in 7.2.1 but pour
it into the bowl after the milk.” Most British people vehemently protest this
ordering, but, according to the beginning of the document, the standard has been officially
approved by the government of the United Kingdom, and the USSR? Perhaps being the more sensible inhabitants
of the British Isles, the Irish have, however, officially expressed disapproval of ISO standard
3103. Now, before you go and say that it’s absurd
that the ISO sells a tea recipe for so much, you have the consider the actual use of such
a thing. Imagine researchers were doing a study on
how ethnic background affects taste perception with samples in Brazil, the UK, India, and
Japan. The UK, India, and Japan are all tea-loving
nations that would have no problem brewing a cup of tea, but its entirely possible that
researchers in Brazil would never have brewed tea before in their life. By all using ISO standard 3103, all four experiment
sites would brew the exact same cup of tea which eliminates the preparation of tea as
a variable in the experiment. For this exact reason, there are also ISO
standards for tons of other beverages and foods like coffee, cereal, chocolate, juices
and more. So, if you want to be sure you’re a standard,
conforming, bureaucracy-loving individual, just be sure to send Switzerland your $40
and buy this recipe for the internationally standard cup of tea. 