The rainbow, as we know it, is Red, Orange,
Yellow, Green, Blue, Violet. ROYGBV. I'm ignoring Indigo because, let's be honest. Indigo? But where exactly is violet? Is it at the end here? This dark blue? And what’s this brighter light blue-green? Cyan, perhaps? Why don't we say the rainbow is Red Orange
Yellow Green Cyan Blue? ROYGCB Well, we actually do, and we’ve just forgotten. When Isaac Newton originally observed a rainbow
of light split by a prism and made his labeling of the colors as RedOrangeYellowGreenBlueIndigoViolet,
the thing he called “blue” was indeed what we would now call blue-green, teal or
cyan – reminiscent of the color of the blue sky. And what we now tend to call blue, Newton
called violet - as in, roses are red, violets are blue. Dark blue. He only included indigo in his fundamental
"seven colors of the rainbow” so that they would match the number of notes of the western
musical scale: Do re mi fa so la ti… yeah. Purple and magenta, as we know, don't occur
in the rainbow from a prism because they can only be made as a combination of red and blue
light, and those are on opposite sides of the rainbow – nowhere near overlapping. So there’s no purple or hot pink in the
rainbow from a prism. Violet is there in the “roses are red, violets
are BLUE” sense, but purple is not. So then why do rainbows in the sky often look
like they have purple in them? I suspect sometimes it's an optical illusion
whereby nice deep blues in small amounts surrounded by a lighter color appear purplish to our
eyes. HOWEVER, sometimes purple and pink really
ARE there - because a rainbow is really a rain-disk: each color of sunlight reflects
back in a bright-rimmed disc, all of different sizes, which together add up to make a white
disk with a colorful rim. But because light is a wave, interference
from the raindrops themselves actually gives each disk multiple rings - the familiar outer
ring is just the brightest. The others are called "supernumerary rings"
and are the source of supernumerary rainbows - the smaller the raindrops, the stronger
the supernumerary bows. And if the drops are the right size, the first
red supernumerary ring can overlap significantly with the main dark blue ring, and what do
red and blue give? Purple! So as the saying goes, roses are red, violets
are blue, and purple in a rainbow is a supernumerary hue. 