Some of our very favorite foods are closer
to this than this. That’s because coffee, bread, cheese, beer
– even chocolate! – are home to millions of microbes. In fact, these foods only acquire the tastes,
smells, and textures we love because of tiny bacteria and fungi. The vast majority of microbes – about 99%
– are actually quite harmless to humans. But the other 1% are nasty enough that our
ancestors – and the ancestors of various other mammals and birds – evolved a natural
repulsion to stuff that might harbor nasty germs. In general, we think rotten stuff looks and
smells disgusting, which, considering what's at stake, isn’t overly cautious. Fortunately, if friendly microbes get to our
food first, they can keep the bad guys at bay. Meat left out on the counter provides the
perfect conditions for pathogens to flourish: it’s warm, moist, and protein-rich, just
like our bodies. But with some micromanagement – adding lots
of salt, for instance – we can help harmless, salt-tolerant microbes like Lactobacillus
outcompete their dangerous but salt-sensitive relatives. A few unrefrigerated months later, we get
salami, rather than Salmonelli! Our ancestors stumbled on this kind of controlled
spoilage thousands of years ago – either by lucky accidents or out of serious desperation
– and we humans have been intentionally spoiling food ever since. Not only to keep our food safe to eat, but
also because the microbes we culture can transform it, almost magically, into awesome deliciousness. Yeast, for example, gorge on the sugary starch
in bread dough, then burp out carbon dioxide that helps give loaves their lift. In a more exotic transformation, bacteria
and fungi take turns munching on piles of cacao, mellowing out bitter polyphenols and
helping create the complex and delicious taste of chocolate. And deep in cheese caves, mold spores populate
small holes and cracks in soon-to-be blue cheese, while their relatives munch through
the rest of the blob, digesting big protein and fat molecules into a host of smaller aromatic
and flavor compounds, that give the final product its smoothness and rich, funky flavor. But to some, stinky cheese is about as appetizing
as licking someone’s toes. Which isn’t that far off, since the bacteria
that make some cheeses super-stinky are the same ones that cause foot odor. Yum? Even so, these flavors tend to grow on us:
not just literally but also figuratively. The more we’re exposed to particular microbial
funks – from our first taste of the flavor compounds in amniotic fluid forward – the
more we tend to like them. As a result, people around the world have
some very different ideas about how to microbe-ify foods – but every culinary culture involves
fermentation in one way or another. And if we didn’t let food spoil just a little
bit, we’d have no sauerkraut, soy sauce, pickles, or prosciutto. Not to mention kefir, kimchi, kombucha, koumiss,
katsuobushi - and plenty of other delicacies that don’t start with K. What’s more,
spoiled food may well have changed far more than our tastes – historical evidence suggests
that, when our ancestors gave up their wandering ways and settled down to grow grain, it was
likely for love of either bread or beer. Whatever the case, one thing is clear: without
the help of friendly fermenting microbes, we humans would  