It's the first day of
shooting the music video of Tag Me (@Me), our debut song and you're watching our
first group dance scene Let's go check it out! I'm getting vitamin D I want to tan the brighter parts of my skin so I'm letting my inner arms face the sun (Closing in) Do lizards stay out in the sun like this? Don't waste your time and have some lunch Thanks, I'd like some lunch The sun is too hot There are also a lot of bees But I'll do my best We had to push our desks
during the choreography but we were not used to the desks
and it was on a grass field So they were very stubborn She's right It caught me off guard (Finished shooting the group dance
scene on the grass field) (Changing their outfits while cooling off) I can only raise my arms up to here So I'm not sure if I'll be able
to run well later I'm a little worried (Will Weeekly be able to
run well in their dresses?) Doesn't this outfit remind you of
Eun Danoh in "Extraordinary You"? Kyung... Say the, "I declare" line I declare! From today the only woman in my life is you, Eun Danoh! I wonder who is going to
come in last this time... Guys, stay tuned - It's not going to be me
- Will it be Han Jihan or Lee Jaehee? I think these two in mint dresses
are the slowest Please check the video footage
later to see who won (Instant_video_replay_that
_Weeekly_asked_for.mp4) (Indeed_Jaehee_came_in_last.mp4) It's not that I'm slow The others are so fast so it looks like I'm slow in comparison It's almost lunch time After lunch,
we might come in first - True
- Right? (Running repeatedly for a good shot!) (The result is this cool trailer video!) (That's it for today's shoot!) Thank you so much!
See you tomorrow! The first day of filming is finally over! To be honest, I still can't believe
we're filming a music video I can't believe it, either! Let's all hold hands
(and jump to the second day) Three, two, one! (Teleported to the second day of filming) Where are we? We're now on the second day
of shooting our music video! Hi I didn't know they had to build
these classrooms from scratch I had no idea so many people
had worked hard to build a set So I'm very grateful (The first team to shoot is
in a good mood this morning) In this scene, we all gather around
Jihan's phone and say, "That's so fun!" ([PD] Did you have breakfast?)
It was seaweed soup, but I couldn't have any I burned my tongue I didn't think it would be that hot
and had a sip Do you know that orange juice meme? I just spit it out like that Soeun kind of looked like this (The_first_team_finished_quickly.mp4) ([PD] Did you see how
the previous team did?) I couldn't because I had to get ready but I'm sure they did a great job Right, guys? (The group dance scene followed!) (Aligning the desks and
checking the set one last time) (Carefully_monitoring_the_footage.mp4) (Looks_like_an_April_Fool's_joke.mp4) (Energetic Jihan)
(I'm not sleepy) (And sleepy Jaehee) I swear I didn't fall asleep I just closed my eyes Please don't get the wrong idea (Wrapped up the group scene
in a good mood) [PD] Okay, cut! We're going to put on our dresses again and go into a white and pink-colored room This room feels uncomfortable!
It's annoying! That's the gist of the scene "I deserve to be free!", you know? Are you excited, guys? We're heading there now,
so let's go! (Let's go!) (Finished_in_just_three_cuts.mp4) Finally, the second day of filming is over! (Applause) It's over! I can't believe tomorrow is our last day Time flies so fast Why don't we all teleport together
to the third day? Bye-bye We're on our third day (Full of energy as always) We'll go do our best on today's shoot Three, two, one Let's do it! (Starting the third day
with a group dance scene) ([PD] I heard you've been to
this set before) Yes, when I was nine I was in a music video of Sunny Hill's "Goodbye to Romance" And it turns out this is where
that music video was filmed I think this is fate (Playing the Pump It Up game
during their break) You're really good! It's fun! Up and down (Perfectly_in_sync.mp4) (Soojin and Jihan started filming
after the break) (Got the okay sign right away!) We make a great team ([PD] Which scene are you
excited about today?) - Monday slides down--
- A pole! There's this scene - Can we--
- I wonder if we can go up there I want to go up there and play (This is the pole!) (Were you curious about how
Monday slides down this pole?) (Like so!) It's fun, it's fun (Slide) Do you know what Soojin said
when she was up there? Soeun was dancing like this, and she said "Please stay still...
You're making me dizzy" I was a bit... The floor was shaking but Soeun kept going "Wow! This is so fun!" Yeah, she did (They're all sitting down for this scene) It's almost over We're almost done filming Three, two, one! That's a wrap It's a huge board with our world view It's so cool When all the lights went off the table would sometimes
light up by itself It felt like we were actually in space It was so cool and fun (What_happened_in_Weeekly's_candy_shop.mp4) This glass is for you, miss I didn't order these
(assorted soft candies) It's from that gentleman over there (Hey, there~ I'm Jihan) Cheers to your beautiful eyes (The shoot ended with them
running around and having fun) Thank you for your hard work
for the past three days! This has been Weeekly! Thank you! Thank you so much! 