Tanzania’s Lake Natron isn’t exactly a
pleasant place for a swim. The water is alkaline -- sometimes
very alkaline. Depending on the conditions, its pH can be
higher than 10 -- that’s a thousand times more basic than
pure water. Also, it is heated by volcanic geysers. The lake’s temperature has been known to
hit sixty (60) degrees Celsius. Any animal corpses unfortunate enough to land
in the water end up mummified in a coat of minerals, and touching
it is seriously painful for humans. Because of that, it’s hard to imagine that
anything can live in this lake. And yet, Lake Natron is full of life. First, the lake has a distinctive, bright
red color, and it gets that from a flourishing community of algae. The lake is home to a genus of brilliant red
algae called Arthrospira, which loves salty, alkaline water. But these algae are not alone. They’re the basis for the lake’s very
own ecosystem. Lake Natron, and other alkaline lakes across the region, are home to a genus of fish called Alcolapia, which have evolved unique adaptations to withstand the toxic environment they call home. For example, alkaline lakes are full of ammonia, which is toxic to many forms of life. Land animals can usually process ammonia by
converting it to urea, which is less toxic, but this process takes
up a lot of energy. And some saltwater fish have similar adaptations. The problem is, when it comes to freshwater
fish, it doesn’t take a lot of ammonia to be toxic-- just half a milligram in a liter of water
can start to cause issues. So Alcolapia have evolved an enzyme that lets them convert ammonia to urea without using too much energy. And that allows them to survive in waters
that have been shown to kill other similar species
of fish within an hour. Alcolapia have also evolved a higher internal pH compared to most fishes. That means they don’t need to spend as much energy protecting their internal pH from changing because of the environment they
live in. But as you may guess, there’s a trade-off
here. These fish are adapted to live in alkaline
lakes, and only alkaline lakes. These fish have adapted to live in an incredibly
specialized ecological niche -- a.k.a. their role in the greater ecosystem. Because they live in a place that’s so difficult
for other organisms to tolerate, they can thrive without competition from other
fish. But that also means that these fish can’t
survive anywhere but in Lake Natron and places like it. Lake Natron is also the breeding grounds of
the Lesser Flamingo. Despite their name, there’s nothing inferior
about these birds. Like Alcolapia, Lesser Flamingos are specially
adapted to take advantage of everything Lake Natron has to offer. These flamingos have tough skin on their legs
to prevent burns from the caustic water. The high temperatures don’t seem to bother
them, either -- they can submerge their heads in water that's so hot, it’s almost boiling. How’s that for a tacky lawn ornament? They have even been observed drinking boiling
water from geysers with little to no ill effect, although they prefer water at reasonable temperatures
when they can find it. How they manage this is not clear. In a 2006 study, scientists found an unusual
structure in the flamingo’s head. And while they couldn’t determine exactly
what it did, they did have some hypotheses, including that
it could act as a heat exchanger of some kind. However, they found it more likely that the
structure supports the bird’s head as part of its peculiar upside-down style
of feeding. Flamingos also prefer their water fresh -- but when it’s not available, the lesser
flamingo can adapt and overcome. They can drink the salty, alkaline water of
Lake Natron because of salt glands in their heads, which filter out the excess minerals through
their nasal cavity and pass clean water to the rest of their
body. Just like Alcolapia, when they’re in Lake
Natron, the flamingos’ favorite thing to eat is
Arthrospira. And as you might have heard, the brilliant pigments
from the algae get passed to the birds’ feathers -- giving our favorite lawn decorations their
pink color. These incredible adaptations mean that flamingos
rule the roost at Lake Natron, and in all the other alkaline lakes that make
up Africa’s Great Rift Valley. But also like Alcolapia, flamingos have evolved to take advantage of a specialized environment, and that means that their habitat needs to
stay stable in order to keep the species healthy. Flamingos depend on these alkaline lakes to
breed. They can’t outcompete other birds anywhere
else. Unfortunately, soda ash mining, which extracts sodium carbonate from alkaline
lakes like Lake Natron, is encroaching on their breeding grounds. Which means a balance must be struck between
human activities and the needs of the bizarre, unique creatures
that have adapted to live in alkaline lakes. Because really, where would we be without
flamingos? 