Kevin: It's like, "I'm being cute in this song" but there's this weird prickly note "Ay!" It's like a prickly on a rose-y! Umu: You're now reacting to the solo artist Hyuna (Henry starts singing 'Bubble Pop') who was part of the group 4Minute under Cube Entertainment. But then, she wanted to date and be engaged to her boyfriend. So now they're under Psy's label and she can—
Kevin: No, we're not doing two! I'm sorry to interrupt, but see Isaac? This was a terrible idea! (Umu: ISAAAC!) Umu: She released a song, 'Flower Shower' in 2019 that reflects on her journey of self-discovery after being asked to leave Cube Entertainment. The song is not just about rediscovering herself but also reinventing herself now that she has the freedom to pave her own path. Just as flowers wither and rebloom, Hyuna will bloom again too! This is her debut release as an artist with P Nation and the song is composed by: Psy, 유건형, (Daniel: Psy?), Space One, and Anna Timgren. Daniel: Alright. Fiona: I just think it's really cool that she went off and did her own thing like with another label, of course but— Good for you! Henry: [counting down] Flow-er-Show-er! *pop* Henry: I love Hyuna. Aaron: Oh! Aaron: I like that. Aaron: That was a good intro. Elizabeth: Okay, I like this! Owen: I really like that quick glissando from the C *mimics sounds from song* But it's like, it's just an effect. It doesn't really change the fact you still feel those two notes really strongly Elizabeth: Ah! This visuals are very striking. Ahh! I like this beat a lot! I love this trend of like, minimalist beats and then you kind of focus on the vocalist. Brianna: Oh! James: Hmm. Brianna: What is that sound? James: Yeah, I don't know what that—(Brianna: Yeah.) Brianna: Is that her voice? Henry: That's a...that's like a flat two?
Cloud: Yeah. Cloud: Like they added some flats. Henry: And then the bass has a five there so I guess it's like a weird dominant...feel? Brianna: I really like the rhythmic play in the rhythm section. There's so many like different elements (James: Yeah!) it's not just like the beats. It's the bass, it's the snaps. It all adds to the vibe. James: The beat is hard.
Brianna: Yeah. Kevin: Like I've heard similar songs with similar percussion but this one there's just these little details that are so crazy! "Hyuna is red!" [reading lyrics] Whoa CGI cups! Nick: We're back.
Aaron:  Oh (x4) we're going...where? Nick: I really like the melody
Aaron: We're traveling. Nick: ...of the prechorus. I think it works really well with her voice, like the more melodic stuff. Kevin: It's like, "I'm being cute in this song" but there's this weird prickly note "Ay!" It's like a prickly on a rosey! Yeah, that makes a lot of sense actually. Daniel: Damn, I don't know why she's not like...sneezing. I have really bad seasonal allergy that would not work out for me. Fiona: That's probably why she looks so sad. Elizabeth: Oh wait, with the bass beat is speeding up to get us back to the chorus. But I bet there's going to be a silence... Owen: Ahh!
Elizabeth: AHH CALLED IT!!! AHHH! James: Hmm. Brianna: Oh, pop that hip! James: That's very trap, yeah! Brianna: Yeah! Brianna: It's just the different elements within the beat is really cool. Cloud: I'm still picturing like "Mario Sunshine" like with those flowers that like move. Umu: Thoughts? Summary? Cloud: I'm just going to get this out of the way first. You [Umu] extended your legs in the middle and your socks are so bright I thought there was an animal on the ground crawling towards us. I was like, "Is that a dog?!" Henry: Oh my gosh, it makes me want to go to a greenhouse in this dastardly weather we live in. Cloud: Yeah.... Henry: This dastardly climate. Cloud: Yeah, it sounds like springtime, I like that. Henry: Music and MV. Mostly video, because seeing all that brightness was *claps* すごい! Nick: What are your thoughts? Aaron: Oh my gosh, this is our first reaction since...
Nick: Yeah, it's been forever! Aaron: Yeah it's been...what do we normally talk about? This is new year, new Aaron. Umu: Texture, rhythms, harmonic, melodic. Nick: She was really hot. Aaron: Whoa... Aaron: Well, it was like I kind of got naturey vibes the entire time. Nick: It was like all the woody... They didn't have like a—I think it was wood drums, actually, that gave me the— and it also like brought me back a little bit to like 2015 where they used a whole bunch of— Aaron: Wait, yeah! Like Imagine Dragons.
Nick: Like tropical pop stuff. Aaron: Yeah, I think that whole island pop vibes really covers it because like we got the whole like whistled melody of like *singing* Nick: I really like the detuned little whistles that they had. Yeah. And you don't hear that so much in like pop music in general (Aaron: Oh and like with the birds in the beginning!) and even less in like K-Pop, it seems to me. (Aaron: Yeah.) Henry: I thought it was unique it was... I don't know if it would be...how it would feel different if it were diatonic. It definitely would be a little more boring...yeah, I think it's interesting (with the flat two). I don't know, it stands out, but there's not a lot— because there's not a whole lot going on... Not a whole lot of other like... Instruments that will clash with that sound at the moment. You know, like where the register is, the pitches and like... that there's not a lot of hi-hat for percussion noise while that's happening. It's—it actually stands out, so you can hear it. I'm into it! It's kind of an earworm. It's really stuck in my head. I really like the bass like the way we start off with that... kind of ...Huge bubbly sound, that's how I'd describe it. I imagine...you know those little claymation guys? Henry: *making bubbly sounds* that's how I imagine it. I really like that kind of sound, yeah. I feel like—Also, just the way it started with just Hit you with all the—with the vocal like, big stacked chords is ...Really pleasing to me. So I'm a sucker and sell out for vocals. Cloud: Yeah. I just like that the instrumation—instrumation? Instrumentation. Yeah. That like, you know, it didn't sit on the same thing. It changed (Henry: Yeah.) even though there were different beats. Like there'd be more of a hit on one than on any other beat for that like section and then a different section there would be different timbre, different instrumentation. And like... Yeah, it wasn't too repetitive, it was nice! And I liked the sounds!
Henry: Yeah. Cloud: That's—I'm a simple girl.
Henry: I would drive to it. Brianna: I wanted to know what was that voice? Was that her voice, or was she whistling? Umu: I think it was a mix of multiple... Brianna:Things? Yeah. Umu: Definitely a whistle (Brianna: Yeah!) and there might have been a *sings* and like a ton of reverb James & Brianna: Yeah! James: It was really interesting. And just like that whole like hook. Like it's just that really...it has—it's like written simply enough to be catchy but it has that just a little bit of harmonic weirdness to be like, "Huh?" Brianna: Yeah, that makes you want to listen! James: Yeah, like "What's happening?"
Brianna: Yeah. James: And I really appreciated like the upbeatness of the song like exactly what you were talking about. Brianna: Yeah, it kept it really playful. Brianna: And not too serious.
James: The percussion, The colors, like even the visuals like really serve the music in that way. And I think it's just a good way of describing that. That joyous feeling you feel when you've figured out how to like get out of a slump. Or like...because you know, she's talking about like having to— Brianna: Blossom, yeah, and grow. James: Having to blossom after like leaving one company and having to go to another and reevaluate what kind of art she wants to make and her identity and all of that. So I think it's... the song like portrayed that really well. 
Brianna: Yeah. Kevin: Knowing Hyuna... I knew that an innocent song about flowers wasn't going to be all that innocent. And we can see it all from her choreography and you know? It's got the typical Hyuna appeal. But also, I really like the music kind of supports that! (Isaac: Hmm.) I've heard that, you know, this type of beat, this type of percussion in pop music before. And oftentimes it sounds very sparse, just like the verses in this song. But for some reason in this song, it feels like an actual artistic choice, and I kind of really enjoy that. It feels like when these beats are going it feels like I want to fill it in with something. But yet, the song is deliberately trying to be like that. Not because it's another pop song, but because it's got something to say. I don't know how a song, you know, what makes that difference but I feel that difference this time. Isaac: There's a thing where the first time you listen to Verse 1 I don't know, for me, I'm realizing it takes the verse and then chorus for me to get the building block and then think, "Okay, that's the building block and what are they going to change?" But then, hearing that d flat I was like, "Wow, this is a very obscure song!" And then I start looking in that lens, hearing in that lens. And a lot of the...you know it's just the gaps, the silence almost like a silence where they taper it off and then reemergence of the next note It's really long. Kevin: That's the sparse quality. Isaac: Yeah, I didn't think about flowers, I didn't think about flowers then. Kevin: I think the d-flat is like a prick on a rose. Isaac: ...well, I just—
Kevin: I really think so! It's like, that little bit of venom that comes with who she is singing about, which is herself! Kevin: Yeah, I really think the song succeeds in its message. Isaac: Hmm.
Kevin: Yeah, it really sells who Hyuna is. And I really like it! Nick: Flower Shower! (Aaron: Golden shower.)
Umu: Oh, you guys always miss clicking on things, right? Nick: Don't golden shower!! Umu: What does that mean? Nick: Uh... Nick: She must be protected!!
[Aaron continues his evil laughing] 