Nine of us prepared for the concert. So, obviously, we were not happy. In the middle of the world tour, eight of us had to perform on the stage. We really hoped all nine of us
could be on stage together. It felt like I'd be left alone here,
and they'd all be gone. I'm sure everyone felt that way. When we experienced hardships, nobody talked much about it. Everyone figures it out
on their own, so... "You worked so hard." Something like that was written. Was it because of that? Is that why she was not talking to us? THANK YOU FOR BEING OUR LIGHT. We are really sorry
because we came back within a year, but not all of us could be here. She was perfectly fine
when she was with us, but she felt pressure on stage. Nine of us prepared for the concert. Even if fans who had waited for us understand the situation, they still must have missed
having all of us, so I'm sure she was apologetic. It's so hard because the fans worry a lot
when we are sick. When we're sick or look exhausted,
fans worry so much. And we don't feel good
that we made them worry. They lose sleep because of that. So we try not to get sick
so that they don't worry too much. But we are only human. Sometimes, we get sick
or get really exhausted. So, eventually, we sometimes don't have
any choice but to take a day off. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen... We are on a plane now to Los Angeles, USA. -See you soon.
-Bye-bye. -Let's go wash!
-Go! Please keep up the good work! Keep up the good work! I'm always like that
before going on stage. I was so nervous waiting to go up. I got so nervous, And then Sana and Nayeon,
who went on stage with me, held my hands. By silently looking into each other's eye,
we told each other, "Good luck!" PROTRUDE STAGE Right before an encore, there's a part where we keep running. It's almost the end of the concert. And it includes
the most difficult choreography and songs. I really run out of breath. At one of the concerts... I was so moved once. Mina has her own color, and the
fans lit up their sticks as the color with that color. All those ONCE members... The sticks are very shiny. You all filled here with Mina's color. Cameraman, please show this. At that moment,
Mina was not there with us, but I felt like she was there. This is our first North American tour. We really hoped all nine of us
could be on stage together. We apologize to ONCE. And on stage, I could see on your face
that you all have waited for us. Looking at your happy faces, I was very touched. It is very good to have many members because it gives you a driving force. When someone says, "I'm so exhausted,"
or "I don't want to do this." That happens to everyone, you know. Then, other members would say, "We are lucky enough to do this well
and to be loved by so many people. And that's why we should try
to work harder." Thanks to these members by my side, I am motivated to get up
and work hard again. I think that's why it's awesome
to have the other members. If there is a concert, a lot of fans would come to see us. So it would be rude to them, and it's wrong to let it show. Other members have to pretend
as if everything is all right. And that's very hard. There's a hole
that the members should fill. We are at the LaGuardia Airport, NY. We are now headed to Chicago. The other members are behind us. Hello! Hi! Here, the camera. It's already our last American tour
in Chicago. Okay, so we'll have a safe trip. Please say something
to the ONCE in Chicago. Please wait for us just a little bit. Good job, everyone! Good job! Good job! It was our first world tour. I had so much fun, and I loved it! If we could have another opportunity, I'd like to go on another world tour
with Mina. Where are we going? Right now, we are going somewhere... It would be so pretty here on Christmas. Yeah, totally. -With Christmas carols!
-Yeah! Hold on. I'll hold you. No, I'll hold you like this. I think I was able to overcome
small hardships during the tour, thanks to other members because we all had a hard time together. We had that in common, and we could rely on each other. We get energy from our fans,
and our team relies on each other. What I have felt most thankful is
they get along well with each other. -What?
-Isn't it funny? -I missed it!
-I'll hold you. Let's go. -Mina would like it here a lot.
-I know, right? Are we Mina's boyfriends? I wish Mina was here. I wish she was here. Mina would like it here. Mina, can you hear us? We often got together at night and discussed what to do. We concluded the right thing to do
was just to wait for her. Even if it took too long, we would still be here. Nobody could fill her spot. We also had faith Mina would eventually come back. That's why we waited while working hard. Today, we are headed to Malaysia. When I temporarily stopped working, I was too anxious to even take a rest. It was so... It felt like I'd be left alone here,
and they'd all be gone. I thought a lot about that. I wondered if I'd ever be able to go back. I guess those thought were challenges to me, and it made me stop thinking
about anything. I couldn't do anything. "What if I disappear from TWICE?" I even thought about that. We grow stronger
when we overcome hardships. And those things will be helpful
in the future for sure. I think it'll help me
make the right choices. So I hope we all overcome hardships, including myself
and all the other members. Regardless of our individual ages, all our members are experiencing this
because we are young. I hope we all realize in the future
the challenges were hard but helpful. I love you, TWICE! I love you, too! I love ONCE, too! It was good to see you! 