Hello, my Gumis~! This is Chanmi from likeCHANMI! I think for the first time I share this on YouTube This time, I will play the role of the protagonist, Gang Hyemi from the Web drama, 'Today is Office, Tomorrow is Romance' So I want to share a day of actress Chanmi with you through Vlog Now it's
5:28 AM It's almost 5:30 AM So would you like to join me to see Chanmi working as an actress? I came to the shooting site and I'm going to prepare and get ready * Transforming Actress Chan * Tada~
* Completed transformation💜 * Good guys
So I finished putting on makeup and fixing my hair Peekaboo Like this~ I also changed clothes (The pink color is very good with Chanmi💖) Now I'm going to seriously shoot The first scene is a past memory So I will act in the first scene with the look of Hyemi from 2 years ago So, let's go? Okay! Good morning ~ I'm on the shooting site (Director)
He is our director (Producer)           (Director)
She is our producer~ And They are the directors of light He is the one who will accompany me on the scene, our head of my department in the office In Dorama he was fired because of me He is a super excellent boss So, I'm coming after acting See you soon~ I'm done with the first scene~~~
Yeah~ Now it's 8:30 Since I'm not in the second scene, I'm going to wait in the car for a while But from the third scene, I keep coming out And I rest for a moment, then I keep coming out again and rest And it ends after two more scenes~~~! What time will my day end...? (I want to go back to the house TT) Now I'm here on the filming site So, I'm going to have breakfast (Sweet potatoes prepared by my manager💛)
My manager gave me some sweet potatoes... My sweet potatoes...💖 She prepared for me My manager is dieting now So as she prepared her sweet potatoes, she also prepared for me too I'm going to eat my sweet potatoes then So good! (Do my Gumis also want some sweet potato?) (Chanmi, a bite of sweet potato) Guys, I'm losing weight after the filming of Web Drama And I don't have much double chin, although I do like this Now we came to the city of Paju for the shooting We are working in the countryside The second outfit is the pink formal suit The scene is the first day in this Drama The day Jeongkuk and I meet at the office for the first time So I'm going to film that scene I'll be back after finishing the recording well They are actors who will accompany me all day with the filming Say hello, please I'm ‘Seong-woo Park’ from the role of the new employee, Jeongkuk Na who works judiciously in the drama 'Today is Office, Tomorrow is Romance' And you too, introduce yourself Hi, I'm ‘Seong-cheol Lee’ who has the role of boss Giyeol Kim in this Dorama I'm bald lol * Actress Chan is working judiciously * Chanmi, move a little more to the right and Jihyo also one more step to the right * Actress Chan is working judiciously * We are shooting 2 scenes non-stop, so it takes a long time Now we are going to film the last part of this scene I finished filming 2 scenes, and now it's lunch time What time is now? It's 12 pm Oh my, is it 12 already? We spend 4 hours to shoot 4 scenes I'm going to have my time alone in the car getting the air from the air conditioning So hot I'm going to dry my crown And me! I'm going to eat chicken breast Yes? (What a cute dear Chanmi) Ocook's bites of a chicken breast I bought because It was in the promotion It is the flavor of Korean hot pepper And it's quite spicy and good Very spicy It's? 12:49 pm After waking up and arriving at this place, I spent ... almost 8... 7 hours here With the following scene, we can see the heart of the protagonist, Jeongkuk You want to know what the content of the Drama is, right? Please find and watch this Drama I finished eating! So, I'm going to rest for a while I'm going to sleep and memorize the dialogues * Actress Chanmi is practicing *
"I guess you don't have an experience of failure." * Actress Chanmi is practicing *
"And I also think you only heard that you were doing well as a child" * Actress Chanmi is practicing *
"You heard, you heard" * Actress Chanmi is practicing * * Actress Chanmi is practicing *
"Sir!" * Actress Chanmi is practicing * * Actress Chanmi is practicing *
"Do you know the basics?" * Actress Chanmi is practicing * * Actress Chanmi is practicing *
This part, it's okay… * Actress Chanmi is practicing *
This I can act without pressure * Actress Chanmi is practicing * ‘The fancy lights~’ Now I'm resting for a moment in the waiting room after finishing my part Our ELVIS came How did they know I'm here?
-Announcement of the tour of the filming site of the Chanmi Dorama- So I was talking to my ELVIS but now they are filming, so you have to be quiet Site Staff: Already started recording Site Staff: And in this scene, we are going to offer an opportunity to clap the clapperboard Site Staff: Would you like to experience that? Go to do it Site Staff: We help those who want to do experience first ELVIS: But why do they do that? The clapperboard? It's just an experience You have to do without missing it! hahahahahaha Sorry, but you must do it! ELVIS: Wasn't it that we can decide to do or not? No, no I'm sorry but it's a must In the announcement, it was written as a package, right?
So you can't miss an event Have you been on a package tour? With that package you have to go to the places where you don't want to go, right? This also something like this Look around and come back~ Shall I accompany you? Do you want to go with me? My fans have to go to experiment clapping the clapperboard, but they want to stay with me What should I do? (But we want to stay with Chanmi longer) So, I'm going to spend time with my fans Please, my Gumis understand me For the next scene, I changed again (Office Drama + Chanmi = Legend) This is the filming site I'm coming after finishing the recording~ See ya~ I finished filming and now it's dinner time So for dinner I went back to the car It's a little dark, isn't it? (Scared) (What should I do, my Gumis ...?) It's broken~ I'm going to eat the boiled egg But what happens is that I put this in the basket of raw eggs So I'm not sure if this is cooked or not Anyway, I'm going to eat an egg and rest for a while hehe It's dangerous, so I'm going to tear up the top a little bit to check Oh this is cooked! I chose well~ It's 8:01 pm Without realizing it, it's already 8 pm And for now we were able to record half of all the scenes that were planned to record today Oh…. Ha…. I don't know if we can finish today, but I hope so
(Positive) I'm going to eat quickly and memorize more perfectly Well I finished eating and I will rest a little And then I'll prepare the next scene Pyong💜 My Gumis! I just finished filming And now I'm going to my house The time now is 12:01 AM. Right at the stroke of midnight, we finished filming Today I left the house at 5 in the morning and until 12 at night In this way, I shared my day of filming Internet Drama with you Since I can't give a spoiler, I couldn't show many things But it was a very significant day because I was able to share and show how is my day when I do Web Drama work Today also many thanks to my Gumis for watching my video Also if you have other things and content that you want me to do, please let me know with your comments And Chanmi will also think a lot about new content and be an excellent YouTuber This Drama is an Internet Drama called ‘Today is Office, Tomorrow is Romance’ June 30 begins, so have a lot of expectations and send me lots of encouragement 💜 Thank you very much for watching my video until the end Up to here, it was Chanmi from likeCHanmi Bye~ I'm going home~ Tomorrow I also have the filming schedule ~ Tomorrow I also have to leave at 5 in the morning Dang, shout out~~~ 