“Do you ever wish
you could be 16 again?” “Oh, that's
a frightful notion” Forget ghosts,
zombies, clowns, and whatever this is. Nothing is scarier
than growing up. “It’s just like, the more
I know, the more confused I get.” “I believe that’s
called growing up.” “I’d like to stop
then, okay?” Starting in 1997, following
the 1992 movie, Buffy the Vampire Slayer
captured this truth in the story of
Buffy Summers, the Slayer who
has been chosen to protect the universe
from vampires and other supernatural evils. "I was afraid that
I was gonna be behind in all my
classes, that I wouldn't make
any friends, that I would have
last month's hair. I didn't think there'd
be vampires on campus." If you look closer,
Buffy's journey is an allegory for the
horrifying process of coming of age. The monsters Buffy and
the Scooby Gang face are metaphors for
the challenges we face on the scary
road to adulthood. “Well, basically the uh,
the she-mantis assumes the form of
a beautiful woman and then lures innocent
virgins back to her nest.” But the show suggests
that we all have the power of the Slayer inside of
us, ready to vanquish the demons
of adolescence. “Need a hand?” “No thanks.” “I’m good.” So here’s our Take on
the monsters of teenhood and how to summon
our inner Buffy. to sign up now. “From beneath
you, it devours.” The story of this teen girl
battling agents of darkness is a stand-in for every
teen’s experience fighting the evils of puberty
before learning to embrace their
true destiny. Buffy’s high school is
literally the mouth of Hell. “The Spanish who first
settled here called it ‘Boca del Inferno’, roughly
translated, Hellmouth. A sort of portal between
this reality and the next.” The hellmouth is
specifically located under the school’s library, playing on the high school
student’s anxieties about books and studying. “See, this is a school
and we have students and they check out books
and then they learn things.” “I was beginning to
suspect that was a myth.” The monsters
the Scooby Gang face symbolize
obstacles all young adults can
relate to like peer pressure
and teen drinking. “You stupid.” “No, you stupid.” [Laughter] When an enchanted
beer turns Buffy into a caveman, “Buffy want beer.” “You can’t have beer.” “Want beer.” this is exactly how
a young person might act after imbibing
too much alcohol. The fear of alienation
is represented in “Out of Mind,
Out of Sight”, when a girl becomes
invisible due to being ignored by
her peers. “We all want to be
noticed, remembered, to be seen.” Throughout the series,
common teen issues are made literal
in this way. “She said I was wasting
my youth. So she took it.” When Principal Wood says
faculty who try to make “friends” with students
will get eaten alive, “Trust me, you open
that door, and these students will
eat you alive.” Buffy remembers
the principal who was actually devoured
by possessed students. “You heard about
Principal Flutie, right?” Recurring monsters
symbolize central challenges of
growing up. “Get out of here!” “What’s wrong?” [Screams] Werewolves are
metaphors for puberty. They depict the inner
chaos a teenager feels when they can’t
control their own body. “Three days out of
the month, I’m not much fun to be
around either.” Witches are a metaphor
for the exploration of female identity. [Singing] “It could
be witches! Some evil witches. Which is ridiculous cos
witches they were persecuted. Wicca good and love
the Earth and women power and I'll be
over here.” As Willow starts to learn
the art of witchcraft, she gains a certain confidence
in her feminine being. Witchcraft also acts as
an independent power: instead of always relying on
Buffy or Xander to save her, Willow can now save them. “Mom, I'm not acting
out, I'm a witch! I, I can make
pencils float!” Willow’s strengthening
witch abilities also reveal her communion to
like-minded women, “It’s a test of
synchronicity. Our minds have to
be perfectly attuned to work as a single,
delicate implement.” “Cool.” which leads to her
realizing and embracing her sexual orientation. In addition to this
positive metaphorical meaning of witchcraft,
in the later seasons it turns into something else:
a parallel to addiction. Willow cannot stop
strengthening her magic abilities. She returns to magic
again and again until it turns her into
a literal monster. Xander, Willow’s oldest
childhood friend, confronts her and
reminds her that she is not her addiction. “I love you. I love
crayon-breaky Willow and I love scary
veiny Willow.” Still, as is true for most
addicts, she continues to struggle with the
temptation of relapsing. “Last time I tried using
magic, I felt it surging through me. Pure,
undiluted evil.” But over time she finds
a path to recovery in the comfort of her
friends and normalcy. "I wanna be Willow." "You are. In the end,
we all are who we are. No matter how much
we may appear to have changed." Vampires, as in many other
stories, represent sexuality. It’s no mistake that they
enter Buffy Summers’ life when she turns 15,
a common age at which a girl might start to
explore her sexual nature. “Maybe I like you.” Vampires have always
been a metaphor for sex-- they can only
come out at night, they desire human flesh and
an exchange of bodily fluids, “I've never wanted a human's
blood so much in my life.” and they should only come
to you with your consent. “A vampire can’t come
In unless it’s invited.” Vampire fiction of
the Victorian era, like Bram Stoker’s
1897 novel Dracula, caught the public
imagination, but in that time sex was painted
as fearsome and repulsive. Likewise, 1922’s unofficial
silent adaptation Nosferatu showed the Dracula
figure as rat-like. But in the later half
of the 20th century, vampire fiction and
film & TV started to paint the vampire
as an antihero or hero, with tragic romance, glamour
and undeniable sex appeal. “This is what I am." "It's like diamonds. You're beautiful.” Buffy stands out not only
for prefiguring the vampire madness that would
later seize our culture, but also for using the figure
to honestly demonstrate a young person’s first
experiences with sex. “Buffy maybe
we shouldn’t--” “Don’t. Just kiss me.” In its rawest form,
sexuality can be selfish, impulsive,
and cruel. Vampires in Buffy have no
filter or concern for others, and they act out of
pure, vain desire. “We could be quite
a team if you came around to my way
of thinking. What do you say?” The girls on the show
have their first dating experiences
with vampires, “You never take me
any place new.” “What about that
fire demon nest in the cave
by the beach? I thought that was
a nice change of pace.” and those
experiences end badly. The vampires pretend
to be human, seduce the girls, then show
their true face. This echoes the fear young
people, especially young girls, have of being used for sex. “Only thing you’re thinking
about is how long before you can jump
on my bones.” Buffy’s sexual exploration
is mapped onto vampires. It begins with Angel. [Screams] His very name, “Angel,”
alludes to the larger-than-life ecstasy of a first love, which
can feel positively heavenly. While on the other hand,
the downs are equally extreme. “You can never understand
what I’ve done. Now go.” “You are not staying
here. I won’t let you!” “LEAVE!” Buffy loses her
virginity to a vampire. Angel turns into
the cruel and cold-hearted Angelus
as a direct result of having sex with Buffy. This expresses the concern
that sex could change a person or relationship. “Let’s not make
an issue out of it, ok? In fact, let’s not
talk about it at all.” “Was it me? Was I not good?” The story of the human
and vampire falling in love has been used as
an analogy for separation, difference in backgrounds, or
other impenetrable obstacles. “Some people freak out a bit
about the age difference. Uh, they think ‘What’s
this 96 year old lady doing with a guy
four times her age?’” But Buffy’s and Angel’s
star-crossed relationship is one of the most enduring
examples of this trope. Why? “Because I want
you so badly. I wanna take
comfort in you. And I know it'll
cost me my soul and a part of me
doesn't care.” On a story level,
there’s a fascinating irony in the idea
that experiencing the pure happiness
of love with Buffy rescues Angel from
the curse that gave him a soul but this
very gift turns him back into
a soulless monster. This captures how
adult life is defined by tough choices and
not being able to get what you want. “This isn't some fairy tale. When I kiss you, you don't wake up from a deep sleep
and live happily ever after.” And on the symbolic
and emotional levels, the Buffy and Angel drama
is relatable because it’s about the adolescent
struggle to balance growing up and sexuality. “You're not friends. You'll never be friends. You'll fight, and you'll shag,
and you'll hate each other till it makes you quiver,
but you'll never be friends.” The show suggests
true maturity also has a moral component. According to show
creator Joss Whedon, “vampires are incapable
of moral development.” So in other words,
they can’t grow up. “Things change.” “Not us. Not demons.” The more adult she
becomes, the harder it is for Buffy to
stay with Angel. In Season 3, she
eventually must kill him. And this selfless choice,
putting the world over her own desires is key
to her development. Although Angel is
resurrected, their relationship never returns
to its care-free, innocent original state. “I hate that it’s
so hard and that you can hurt
me so much. I know everything that
you did because you did it to me.” And to really grow up,
Buffy must let go of a boy who never can. “Are you still my girl?” “Always.” Buffy’s sexual
experimentation progresses in
college with human boys
Parker and Riley. “Buffy?” Both subtly justify Buffy’s
relationship hang-ups stemming from Angel,
the fears of abandonment, [Shouts] “Riley! Riley!” and of being used for sex. “You had fun? Is that all it was?” “Well what else was
it supposed to be?” Then, with the vampire
Spike, Buffy experiences sexuality totally
divorced from love. “I knew the only thing
better than killing a Slayer would be f-” “What?!” This relationship
is pure lust -- and it establishes
the important difference between
lust and love. “Spike, I want you.” Buffy is only with
him to feel something, after being resurrected. “He’s everything I hate.” “The only time I ever
feel anything is when…” The issue of consent is
also raised in this chapter. Spike is so unhinged
by his selfishness, he attacks and
attempts to rape Buffy. This is the darkest
version of sexuality, stripped down to
a point of pure conceit, immaturity, and
total disrespect. On the surface,
the ironically named Sunnydale looks
like a happy, carefree California city. In reality, it’s an actual
hellhole that attracts a never-ending
supply of demons. “We’re proud to say
the class of ‘99 has the lowest mortality rate
of any graduating class in Sunnydale history.” This disconnect between
inner and outer is something adolescents relate to --
they’re under pressure to look like they have it all
together as they prepare for college or jobs,
while inside their hormones are raging
and it may feel like the universe is
falling apart. “This is just too
much. I mean, yesterday my
life’s like, ‘Uh-oh,
pop quiz.’ Today it’s
‘Rain of Toads’”. Later on, the show
tackles the difficulty of living with
a roommate. Buffy’s college
roommate, Kathy, is rude and off-putting,
even though she seems normal and friendly
to everyone else. “She irons her
jeans, she’s evil!” Buffy discovers Kathy
is actually a two-faced Mok’tagar demon,
who’s gradually sucking Buffy’s soul
as she sleeps -- just as any college
student feels drained by sharing a room with
someone they can’t stand. “Maybe the world
revolved around you where you used to live,
but it’s share time now.” Kathy’s soul-sucking
is motivated by her own anxiety that her parents
will discover where she’s run off to and force
her to come home. In the end, Kathy’s
traditionalist demon father makes his daughter
give up her education. This touches on
a common theme of imperfect parents. "I gave you birth. I gave up my life, so you could drag
that worthless carcass around
and call it living." Adults can often feel like
monsters to teenagers. Mayor Wilkins, who
represents corrupt politics, actually becomes
a giant snake. But Buffy the Vampire
Slayer tried to articulate that adults aren’t that
different from children. “I’m not supposed
to have a private life?” “No because you’re very
very old and it’s gross.” In the Season 3 episode,
“Band Candy”, the vampire Mr. Trick distributes
candy that makes adults act like
teenagers. The usually reserved
Giles and Joyce now act rebellious, angsty,
and completely immature. “So how come they
call you Ripper?” “Wouldn’t you like to
know. Hm, wait a minute. Listen to this bit!” The curse illuminates that
no one ever truly grows up. We get better at
controlling ourselves, but that inner child stays
in there somewhere. “Fort Dix?” [Laughs] This heroine’s journey
of teenhood is closely attached to the
high school itself. The show starts when
Buffy begins Sunnydale, after being expelled
from her last school. “You’re not seeing
the big picture here. I mean that gym was
full of vampire-- asbestos.” Her graduation into
adulthood is marked by the first destruction
of the high school. During this climax,
Buffy gives up her childish conceits,
like wanting to run away from
her Slayerhood, and let go of
her first love. In the end, Buffy must
annihilate the whole town, representing how the adult
must finally leave her youth behind in the past. “Yeah Buffy. What are
gonna do now?” “In every generation,
there is a Chosen One. She alone will stand
against the vampires, the demons, and the
forces of darkness. She is the Slayer.” The underlying message of
Buffy the Vampire Slayer’s allegory is that we
can all be the Slayers in our own lives. The series interprets
Slayerhood as a metaphor for self-acceptance,
which is what growing up is all about. “No weapons, no
friends, no hope. Take all that away,
and what's left?” "Me.” The Slayer is
Buffy Summers’ alter-ego. Except, unlike
for Superman, there is no costume. Buffy is always
the Slayer. “Clark Kent has a job. I just want to go on a date.” At first, she’s determined
to hide this part of herself from her mother
and classmates. “Uhh” “Oh, Summers, you
are turning me on.” Insecurity is a hallmark
of teenhood. “Your basic spells are
usually about 50-50.” “Well so
is your face!” “What?!” Buffy is insecure
that people will not like her real self. She also has no idea
who that person is. "I'm cookie dough. I'm not done baking. I'm not finished
becoming whoever the hell it is I'm
gonna turn out to be.” To her, Slayerhood
is something that gets in the way of
normal life -- not something
to be proud of. “I would love to be
upstairs watching TV or gossiping about
boys or God even studying. But I have to
save the world. Again.” At first, like many teens,
she dreams of being someone else. “I just wanted to be
a real girl for once. The kind of fancy girl
you liked when you were my age.” In Season 2’s “Halloween,”
Buffy dresses up as a “normal girl" from
the 18th century when Angel was alive. But her magical costume
transforms her into an actual damsel. “I was brought up
a proper lady. I wasn’t meant to
understand things. I’m just meant to look
pretty and then someone nice will marry me,
possibly a baron.” And Buffy realizes that
being “the normal girl” isn’t as great
as she thought. Buffy echoes many
teens’ long paths to accepting
themselves. Each of her deaths
symbolizes a death in the denial of
her identity. “I don’t care! Giles,
I’m 16 years old. I don’t want to die.” In Season 1, she puts
the good of the world over her own life,
and this ends her illusions that she could
escape being the Slayer. In Season 5, Buffy’s
death represents the final death
of her insecurity. She embraces that
being the Slayer is not a curse,
but a gift. “Death is
your gift.” “Death”
“Is your gift.” The allegory’s message
comes full-circle when Buffy shares her gift
with all the women of the world. Through this act,
the show articulates that every girl holds
the Slayer’s strength inside of her -- if
she can only see it. “I say my power
should be our power. From now on, every girl
in the world who might be a Slayer
will be a Slayer.” If we just embrace
who we are, we have the power to fight our
personal demons, be cool and capable
like Buffy, take on the world’s problems --
and yes, even survive high school. “If the apocalypse
comes, beep me.” Last but not least, Buffy
the Vampire Slayer underlines the impact
of the Scooby Gang in Buffy’s life. This close circle
of loved ones differentiates her
from past slayers, and makes her
a stronger human being. Finding people who
get the real you and support you through
dark times is the key to making adolescence...
a little less hellish “And what are we if
not women up to a challenge?” “Exactly. 