right here I have a camera that's been
modified so that it shoots in infrared now the only thing that's different
about it is that it's IR blocking filter was replaced with one that only
lets IR light through. now for such a simple modification the effect is
actually really crazy. this is what I look like on an IR camera
my skin is pastier than normal the patterns of my shirt disappeared and my
eyes are black and looks slightly possessed. now what else can I do with
the camera? well for one anything with an IR transmitter in it like this TV remote
here it's gonna look really bright on the camera even though it's actually
invisible to our eyes. infrared light can shoot through a lot of materials that we
normally consider opaque. for example here I have a glass of coke. now to our
eyes it looks dark because it doesn't let much visible light through but on
the IR camera you can see right through it and that's because it's basically
transparent to shortwave IR. pretty cool right? now you guys know how it goes on
this channel. I'm not just gonna sit around and give you fluff about infrared
photography the only way I can have fun with this thing is if I build some giant
IR lasers. now in case you didn't know surprisingly simple way to make a
powerful IR laser is actually by just tearing down a green laser pointer.
now the reason being is that most green laser pointers don't actually have a
green laser diode inside. instead it uses an infrared laser that pumps a set
of crystals to make green light. now lucky for us this process is not very
efficient so there has to be a powerful IR laser inside for this to work. now
before I start tearing this thing apart I should point out that the experiments
that were done in this video were done completely for educational purposes and
in fact if you were to try any of this stuff at home you'd almost certainly get
killed or at least permanently maimed so yeah please don't try this at home.
green laser pointers have a lot of fragile components inside so it's
important that they're handled with care now actually disassembling this thing
turned out to be really difficult as everything was either glued or
permanently pressed into place honestly it's hard not to use
swear words to describe the process of taking it apart.
anyways at the expense of the laser pointer casing I was able to remove the
laser module. now the orthovanadate and KTP crystals used to generate green
light sit right on top of that IR laser diode so removing these exposes the raw
IR output. on my normal camera this output shows up as a very dim pink and
now if I was dumb enough to look at it with my own eyes I'd actually see a
faint red glow but with the IR camera it's obvious that it's actually very
powerful it lights up my entire desk with IR light but in order to do
anything fun with it I need to focus the output with the lens. instead of trying
to painstakingly mount a tiny lens over the laser diode at just the right
distance I found it easier to just remove the laser diode and stick in a
module with an adjustable threaded lens mount. the finished product is actually
really scary not only is it invisible but it can still blind in a fraction of a
second and that's why I wear laser goggles when I'm working with it. now to those of my viewers out there who are interested in experimenting around
with lasers, a powerful IR laser should not be your first project. the focused
laser looks really cool on the IR camera and plus with the adjustable lens mount
I can focus the beam to a tiny spot so it can burn things. a match lights
instantly when it's placed inside the focal point of the beam and now I can
also cut through thin dark plastic with ease. alright I gotta do it. I gotta
stick my hand in the beam to see what happens because what could possibly go
wrong? oh wow I don't feel a thing. now I figured it wouldn't be bad but I
was hoping it would hurt at least just a little bit. even at the focal point I
don't feel the tiniest a bit of warmth. I guess my flesh is
super transparent to the shortwave IR wavelength now notice that when the beam
is going through my hand it actually lights up all of my veins so they're
clearly visible. that is so amazing! alright now I'm bored. now it's not like
this thing isn't powerful I mean it definitely is, but I mean come on it doesn't
even reach the class four danger rating I feel like I need something that's at
least a hundred times stronger. and now unfortunately a giant portable IR Death
Ray isn't just something I can go and buy online so I guess this means I have
to build one myself. now one of the fun parts about designing a laser like this
is that I'm completely at the mercy of what Parts I could find cheaply on eBay. now
lucky for me high-tech startups are constantly failing and militaries around
the world are always getting rid of old laser hardware. that means there's always
gonna be a constant supply of weapons-grade laser parts in the surplus
market. I had my heart set on using a monster fiber coupled IR laser array on
the build but buying one of these things new costs more than a brand-new car but
with a little bit of luck I was able to score this used but working 25 watt unit.
for the housing I just started with this heat sink and just kind of went at it with
a hacksaw, drill, and dremel. and like most things in my life
I didn't actually plan anything out before diving right in and just started
cutting things and bolting stuff into place until it seemed somewhat
acceptable. I ended up using a pipe for the handle and then wired in a
switch to act as a trigger. before bolting down the laser array I added
some arctic silver to increase heat transfer from the laser. now I really
should have used indium foil for this but I won't be running this thing for
very long so there shouldn't be an issue. coming up with an efficient driver that
can feed the laser a whopping 40 amps at just 2 volts turned out to be quite the
challenge but then I saw a video by Marko reps of him building the exact
driver that I needed. next power supply is a constant current source for the
laser module I got it from someone who has a few other powerful laser sources
and he wants me to design and assemble two universal a constant current drivers
here's a naive approach. it's funny because my naive approach would've been a
giant pile of linear regulators so I'm really happy that I saw his video and
yeah I ended up building a driver based on his design it worked flawlessly so a
big thank you to him. in fact you should all go check out his channel he makes
tons of cool videos on things like robotics and lasers I'll be sure to put
a link in the description of this video on the optics side of things
I needed something to tame the rapidly diverging beam from the fiber. I ended up
using some nice fused silicon lenses from Esco Optics. now these things are rated
to handle the high power laser beam without exploding. I stuck the lenses in
an adjustable telescope mount that I made from PVC pipe. and here is the
terrifying finished product I added a thermometer here so I can keep an eye on
the laser diodes temp. I also added some indicator LEDs one that lights up when
the laser is armed and the other one when the laser is firing and anyway
enough with this technical junk let's test this thing out! can you see me alright? oh
wait let me turn on my giant laser. now I built the mask that I'm wearing by
fitting laser goggles into a welding helmet. I just wanted to make sure there is no chance of any stray light making it into my goggles. the funny thing is
that I can't see this light at all it's completely invisible to me. the only
reason I know it's on is from this indicator light I stuck on it but that
being said I'm sure it looks like I'm holding a bolt of lightning on the IR
camera. that's pretty crazy to me. on my normal camera the beam looks really weak
but obviously this isn't actually the case now what else can I do with this
giant laser? how about triggering a 100,000 volts spark gap? here I have a
very high voltage DC power supply. when the electrodes are close enough the
spark easily jumps the gap but when they're separated enough the
electric field is too weak for total breakdown instead just a small amount of
current finds its way through the cardboard. now if I use the laser to
light the matches in between the electrodes the spark can jump the gap again this works because the flame generates
conductive ions that makes the perceived gap between the electrode smaller.
I'm sure there's also an avalanche effect from the extreme field grabbing
charged particles and smashing them into neutral molecules in the air to make
even more ions. here's another cool trick. the plastic
tubes here I filled with strontium aluminate glow powder. when I light the
pile of flash powder below with the laser it energizes the aluminate so it glows.
now when I shine the IR laser at the powder and glows much brighter. in fact I
can actually see the laser spot through the goggles this way. this is actually
how those IR visualizer cards work. now if it weren't for the extreme blinding
hazard this thing would also function as basically the world's best night-vision
flashlight. this thing has the potential to light up things for miles! but that
won't exactly be safe or legal so I guess I'm just gonna have to use this
thing for blowing up stuff at home. well that's about all the useful things this
laser can do now let's see what this thing can destroy all right so that's about it for this
video now I apologize for the lack of videos recently. it's just been so cold here
it's basically impossible to heat this uninsulated shop above freezing. now
luckily this won't be an issue much longer cause I'm about ready to move
into a new shop that actually has insulation and even better it has a much
bigger electrical connection so stay tuned for that and yeah until the next
time stay safe and happy lasing! 