“What you call love was invented
by guys like me to sell nylons.” Don Draper is the ultimate ladies’ man. “What about your friend?” “Jesus, Don, even in this place
you're doing better than us.” But which lady does Don really love? There are the mistresses who let him express a side of himself
he usually keeps hidden, the wives who show us how
he wants his life to appear, and the platonic loves who mean more
to him than a lot of romances combined. Beneath the superficial aspiration many viewers might feel
watching Don's love life, imagining what it's like to have your
pick of all these beautiful women, his romances serve
an important story purpose. They reflect how we use
our relationships to shape our ideas about who we are. "I just like the way she laughs. And the way she looks at me." We can track the evolution
of Don’s identity through the women who come and go in his life. So here’s our Take on how the many loves of Don Draper
paint a portrait of the man himself. "What do women want? You know better than to ask." If you're new here,
be sure to subscribe and hit the bell to get notified
about all our new videos. Don has a type. "I was hoping I was seated next to,
well, someone like you." It can be hard to figure out
what that type is, given the endless parade of all kinds
of women passing through his life. But on closer inspection, his kryptonite is a
melancholy brunette, whether she's deeply dissatisfied,
grieving, or alienated. You might notice that this sounds a lot like a description
of Don, so this tells us that through these trysts,
Don is engaging with mirrors of himself. “What do you want from me?” “You know. I know you do. You know everything about me” Their often secret or illicit nature “Arnie's on call Thursday or Friday. I'll leave a penny under the mat
when he's flown the coop,” reflects how Don’s true self
is something he can’t bring out into the open. The first is Rachel Menken, and you could say she’s the prototype when it comes to Don’s preference
for sad brunettes. “I’m worried it’s a fantasy.” “It’s not.” Even though the Don/Rachel romance
is short-lived, it’s framed as one of
the defining loves of his life. Show creator Matthew Weiner
has gone as far as to say that Rachel is “the one.” “What he really wants is
he wants Rachel Menken, the one that got away,
the life not lived.” So why were these two
so important to each other? Rachel is the first person
to really see Don. “But I do know what it feels like
to be out of place, to be disconnected. There’s something about you
that tells me you know it, too.” When they meet in season one,
both are “passing” by trying to disavow the parts of their identities
that mark them as “other.” “I’m American,
I’m really not very Jewish.” “That identity is the same story
as Don’s identity. It’s like ‘how do we become white?’”. Their shared feeling of alienation
due to their backgrounds allows Don to confide in Rachel in a way we haven’t seen him do
with anyone else. “You told me your mother died
in childbirth. Mine did, too. She was a prostitute.” But even though Don takes a big step
in starting to open up to Rachel, he’s not ready to do this fully. His secrecy and paranoia still win out. “You know more about me than anyone.” “You won’t even tell me what happened.” The whole reason Don asks Rachel
to run away with him is because Pete has just threatened
to expose Don’s identity, so he’s acting out of fear
rather than pure love. “You don't want to run away with me, you just want to run away.” Soon after their affair ends,
Rachel gets married, and ultimately she dies young
from cancer, which is an interesting similarity
to two other key women in Don’s life --Anna Draper and Betty Draper. At its core,
Don and Rachel’s relationship is a classic case of
what might have been. "Things come. Good things,
but there's no future in them." It’s a great love that’s doomed
by circumstance, timing, and fear of what society will think. The tragic potential
of this love is captured in Rachel’s discussion of the word “utopia.” “The Greeks had two meanings for it: ‘eu-topos,’ meaning the good place, and ‘ou-topos,’ meaning
the place that cannot be.” With this line,
the show raises an agonizing idea: what if the person you love
but can’t be with-- the one who got away-- is the great romance
of many people’s lives? In season seven,
years after their affair has ended, it’s implied that Don has been dreaming
about her for most of the series. “Maybe you dreamt about her
all the time.” “Maybe.” When Don goes to Rachel’s shiva,
her sister says: “I know who you are," suggesting that he loomed large
in Rachel’s mind, too. So through this relationship,
the show points out that the person you connect with most
in an authentic way-- or the one who moves
your heart most deeply-- sadly may not feature
for much screen-time in your life. "This is it. This is all there is. Feelings slipping through
my fingers like a handful of sand." Many of us, like Don,
don’t follow our hearts in that brief moment when
we have the chance, and then spend the rest
of our lives wondering, or trying to recreate
the lost opportunity with new people who remind us of that
one-who-could-have-been. While Rachel speaks to
the disconnected outsider in Don, his neighbor Sylvia Rosen
gives expression to another part of his identity: his past. “I knew it’d be you.” The show links Sylvia to Aimee, a prostitute who worked at
the brothel where Don grew up. In flashbacks we see how
Aimee mothers young Don when he’s sick. “Your mama don’t know how
to take care of nobody.” but also takes his virginity. “I took that boy’s cherry.” And the complex dynamic he had
with Aimee comes through in the oatmeal ad Don creates, where the woman inspired by Aimee
appears to be the young boy’s mother. Like Aimee, Sylvia
is a madonna/whore figure. She’s a Catholic woman
who comforts and cares for Don, “So what do you do when I leave here? Get on your knees
and pray for absolution?” but they also have
a very carnal connection. “You want to feel shitty right up
to the point I take your dress off. Because I’m going to do that.” So this affair is Don’s way
of trying to rewrite the past, of taking charge in this relationship
with a woman who reminds him of Aimee, because he wasn’t in control
with the real Aimee. “It has to do with
what holds people together. What is that thing that draws them? It's a history. And it may not even
be with that person.” It’s no coincidence that Don
asserts this power with Sylvia while he’s feeling impotent
in his marriage to Megan. “My storyline is getting
more developed and that means I'm going to have
a series of love scenes.” Sylvia makes him feel needed again. He sees her arguing with her husband
about money and later gives her cash. He calls in a favor to
stop her son from being drafted, enjoying being the big hero
who saves the day. But the most revealing episode
in Don and Sylvia’s relationship is when she tells him: “I need you, and nothing else will do.” These words drive Don wild. He even makes Sylvia repeat them
when they meet at a hotel to have sex. "I need you, and nothing else will do." And they seem to trigger an even greater need for control
deep inside him. From here on out
almost everything he says to Sylvia takes the form of a command. “I want you to crawl on your hands
and knees until you find them.” “Don’t go anywhere” “Don’t answer the phone again” “Don’t ask any more questions. Take off your dress” This is about him making Sylvia
into someone who can’t desert him, “You are for me. You exist in this room for my pleasure” reminding us again of how his childhood
trauma and fear of abandonment inform this and all
of Don’s relationships. When Sylvia ends their affair,
Don gets desperate. He comes as close as
Don Draper can come to begging, “Please,” lurks outside her back door and keeps trying to
restart their relationship. “Please just listen.” As Weiner said, “He could take or leave Sylvia
until she rejected him.” Sylvia was supposed to be someone
he had total control over, but even in this rewriting of history
he couldn’t possess her enough to cure his feelings
of powerlessness and self-hatred. While we could buy into the romance
of Don’s relationship with Rachel, his affair with Sylvia is one of
the lowest things he does. He’s sleeping with his friend’s wife
right under the man’s nose, and brazenly lying to his own wife. “I'm gonna change my shirt, just tell Megan I'm going out
for cigarettes, then I'm gonna knock on her door.” So it’s fitting that
the Don/Sylvia relationship ends in the most humiliating way possible. This creates another parallel
to his encounter with Aimee, because that relationship
also ended in shame. “Filthy, shameful, disgusting!” You’re trash! You are filth!” But it’s significant that
just two episodes later, we see Don come clean
about his identity at work, “I was an orphan. I grew up in Pennsylvania
in a whorehouse.” and start opening up to his kids. “This is where I grew up.” He had to face the past,
and even relive parts of it, in order to really commit to changing. “What do you want for this year?” “I want to stop doing this” It takes another woman to reveal exactly how Don’s affair
with Sylvia has changed him. His relationship with
Neve Campbell’s character, who is unnamed on the show
but credited as “Lee Cabot," is one of the show’s briefest. Their story lasts the length
of a plane ride. “This is nice. I usually sleep alone.” But over these hours
they develop a deep emotional intimacy as this woman reveals
that she is grieving her dead husband. “I mean we literally said, ‘Let’s build Don Draper’s ideal woman.’ Right down to the fact that she’s sad." "He was thirsty. He died of thirst." "There’s a depth to that,
to the grieving, that Don’s attracted to." So it’s a surprise when
at the end of the plane ride, Don decides not to take
this fledgling romance any further. “I’m sorry
but I have to get back to work.” Weiner has said, quote,
“that woman has everything that Don Draper loves,
and his resistance of her shows his attempt to recommit
to his marriage, and his attempt to become
a better person in some way.” “I bet I could make you feel better.” “I bet you could.” The mysterious waitress Diana
is the final woman of Don’s type with whom he has
a significant relationship. Diana represents mourning what’s lost. From their very first meeting,
Don feels like he knows her “Do I know you?” “I don’t think so.” “You look so familiar to me. Do I know you from somewhere? “I think I know you.” He meets Diana soon before learning
that Rachel died, so it’s almost like
she’s the ghost of Rachel. “I had this dream
about a woman I once knew. And I found out the next day
she had just died.” “Is that who you think I am?” Diana really is the make-up
or do-over Rachel, in that Don could realistically
have a relationship with her. By now he’s separated from Megan,
and the timing is right. “You're not the first thing
to come along. I'm ready.” He and Diana forge a
powerful connection over their shared experiences of loss. “How long were you married?” "Twelve years. I don't know why
I thought it'd be easy.” “It's never easy” But what stops this relationship
from becoming more is that Diana is too damaged. The tragedy in her past
has made her determined to cut all positive feeling
out of her life. “I don’t want to feel anything else.” So this woman is really
a cautionary tale for him. “You’ve never had a worse day than me.” “You don’t think I’ve felt grief?" Her story reminds him that
he needs to push through the pain to become a better,
happier version of himself. If we look at the similarities between Rachel, Sylvia, Diana, and Lee,
we see that there is a spirit of a woman Don loves that
manifests in each of them. This sad woman embodies
the tragedy of his life, that he can't fully realize or connect
to the person he is in a positive way. “I pray for you.” “For me to come back?” “No. For you to find peace” If the women who fall under
the umbrella of “Don’s type” reflect who he really is, Don’s two wives show us
who he wants to be. Betty and Megan remind us that
this is a key part of marriage, cultivating and presenting
a certain joint image to the world. “Are you two sold separately?” “Look at you two. You’re my favorite couple.” As Don’s first wife, Betty, embodies the WASP elite
that he aspires to be a part of. “And she’s from a good family
and she’s educated.” The couple does achieve
the suburban, white picket fence ideal, but this beautiful image masks a deep dissatisfaction
and emptiness they both feel. “Birdie, you should eat.” “Stop it, Don. Nobody’s watching” Don spends a lot of their marriage cheating on Betty
and keeping secrets from her. He doesn’t believe he’s worthy
of this woman’s love. “I was surprised that
you ever loved me.” He fears, correctly, that
she would never be able to accept him as Dick Whitman. “I could tell the minute
she saw who I was, she never wanted to look at me again, which is why I never told her.” And yet on some level
he wanted her to discover the truth, “You obviously wanted me to know this
or you wouldn't have left your keys, you wouldn't have kept all
of this in my house,” because he couldn’t have
a complete experience of love from a wife who doesn’t even
know who he is. After Don and Betty’s divorce,
Don briefly tries to replicate Betty’s polished, upper-class pedigree
with Bethany Van Nuys, who is essentially
a young Betty Draper wannabe. But Don is bored by Bethany,
showing that he’s outgrown his interest in achieving
that conventional ideal. Instead he goes in a
totally different direction by marrying his secretary Megan Calvet,
who represents a fresh start. The biggest reason Don falls for Megan
is her idealized view of him. She helps him believe
he’s a good person as he emerges from the
wreckage of his divorce. “I know that you have a good heart, and I know that you're always
trying to be better.” On the surface, vivacious Megan
is a stark departure from Betty. "Zou bisou bisou,
Zou bisou, zou bisou, Mon dieu qu'ils sont doux." Yet this marriage is again Don’s way
of proving something about himself. Aligning himself with this young,
modern woman shows he wants to present as cool and “with it”
as he enters middle age. “I know why you're upset. You're forty.” Sexy, liberated Megan
is the envy of his settled friends, “And to Don--you lucky so and so,” and her talent for advertising
suggests that, as a working woman,
she’ll be Don’s intellectual equal. “‘Kids want beans
and they have forever.’” “I had something like, ‘Heinz Beans,
some things never change.’” “Jesus, I think that's better.” Yet even though he enjoys the idea
of Megan’s free, hip lifestyle, he doesn’t really like
this openness in practice, as we see when he hates the
surprise party Megan throws for him. “I don't need to be the center
of attention.” So as much as he initially likes the image that his second wife
helps him present, over time their private incompatibility
becomes harder and harder to overcome. "You kiss people for money. You know who does that?" Don’s marriages make it clear
that our choice of spouse is often based on two things: the face we want to
present to the world, and the way we want
to think of ourselves. “I feel like myself when I'm with you,
the way I always wanted to feel.” Don sabotages both his marriages,
so this reveals that, even if he succeeds at creating that
perfect image of himself for a while, over time he himself
can’t buy into the lie, and that’s why
he can’t accept his wives’ love “That poor girl. She doesn’t know that loving you
is the worst way to get to you.” The other women who show up
in-between these significant romances also reveal what’s going on
within Don at any given moment. He’s with many, many other women
over the course of the show, some just for one night,
but we’re going to talk about the ones who do stick around a little longer
and have an impact on his life. The most common thing Don seeks
in his mistresses is an escape. Midge, the first mistress
we meet in season one, lives the antithesis
of Don’s and Betty’s married life. She is an independent artist
who isn’t interested in a traditional cookie-cutter life. “I don't make plans,
and I don't make breakfast.” This is the appeal she holds for Don. She’s like a reprieve
from his day to day existence. “I like being your medicine.” In season three,
Sally’s teacher Suzanne Farrell intrigues Don with her
free-spirited nature, “Who are you? Are you dumb or pure?” and becomes another vacation for him. “I can't stop thinking about you.” “Because I'm new and different. Or maybe I'm exactly the same.” This woman is a breath of fresh air
in his stifling suburban family life. “I look at your life, and even if I remove myself
from the picture, I see a man who is not happy." In season two, Don’s affair
with his client’s wife Bobbie Barrett reveals that for him,
sex is very much about power. This tryst is an escape
of a different kind. It’s all about releasing
the darker impulses they can’t act on in their normal lives. “I like being bad and then
going home and being good." Season four’s Dr. Faye represents
the potential for Don to have a healthy, mature relationship. They meet when he’s a single man
and she is his equal, an accomplished and intelligent
professional woman who sees him clearly. “You'll be married again in a year.” “What?” “I’m sorry, I always forget. Nobody wants to think they’re a type.” When they do start dating,
they do it with their eyes open and their relationship has
an emotional honesty that’s been missing
in a lot of Don’s past love affairs. “But I'm just going to
take you to your door.” “And why is that?” “Because that's as far
as I can go right now, and I'm not ready to say good night.” But season four Don isn’t ready to deal
with his problems in a realistic way, which is why he chooses to
dive headfirst into yet another escapist relationship
rather than continue things with this more appropriate partner. “And I hope she knows you
only like the beginnings of things.” Two of the most profound relationships
Don has on the show are with women he’s not
romantic with at all. Anna Draper represents
the power of unconditional love. “I always felt that we met so that
both of our lives could be better.” She’s different from all
the other people in Don’s life in a very significant way: from the first moment she meets him,
she knows his secret. “They thought I was him and he was me. I didn't think I was hurting anyone.” Don spends so much of the series going to great lengths to hide
who he really is, out of fear that people would
reject him if they knew the truth. But loving, open-hearted Anna
disproves that notion. “I know everything about you,
and I still love you.” So his bond with Anna makes us realize
that he’s cheating himself out of a lot of love he potentially could experience
by not being upfront with others. “I've told you things
I've never told Betty. Why does it have to be that way?” Finally, Don sees his protege Peggy
as a part of him, “I see you as an extension of myself,” seemingly even more than he does
his actual children. Like him, she enters
the advertising world as an outsider and experiences a life-changing trauma, and she shares his
exceptional talent and work ethic. When Don champions Peggy’s career “Miss Olsen, you are now
a junior copywriter,” and passes on
his survivalist philosophy to her “Get out of here and move forward,” these are gestures of love
that he wishes someone had shown him. When Anna dies,
Don sees a vision of her ghost, and as she looks down on Don and Peggy
it’s like she’s satisfied that Peggy is taking her place as
the most important woman in his life, who also knows him completely,
though in a different way. “You're the only person
in the world who really knew me.” “That’s not true.” When Mad Men ends Don is a single man,
probably not for long, if his romantic history
tells us anything, but his relationship status is a reminder that this story
has always been about this ladies’ man’s journey
with himself. Weiner has said that
Don hugging Leonard in the finale represents “love for yourself.” "They should love me. I mean, maybe they do,
but I don't even know what it is." By showing compassion to this stranger, Don is really extending a hand
to his inner Dick Whitman. So while Don Draper spends so much
of the series searching for emotional fulfillment
in other people, in the end, the love he needed most of all
was his own. “The only thing keeping you from being happy is the belief
that you are alone." 