(Full of screams) What is this really! Ugh!!! (What are these two…) I met YEOREUM and EXY This is a secret! (Why did they meet?!) I'm gonna introduce
one of my friends to EXY I think EXY will
notice who it is Will they match well?
Will they like each other? (The First Date) (Partition) Hello, everyone I'm the host of
The First Date, YEOREUM I feel so excited It's been a long time
since I felt like this Sister, come on in! Ttara Ttara Ran- (With an old-fashioned BGM)
The BGM is too old-fashioned (She doesn't care) Hello, YEOREUM (Excited) She guessed so hard like Detective Conan
on the way to here As far as I know, YEOREUM
doesn't have many friends She definitely chose
this person from home From (G)I-DLE (Pah) YUQI (Are you looking at me, YUQI?) (Eyes are shaking) (100% embarrassed)
Why did you feel like that? Because she's your only friend (Oh my) (Screwed) Anyway if she's right,
I may not talk to her She's shy of strangers I'm so shy Let me give you a hint My friend is a super insider
in the universe So she wouldn't care any of it (A super insider came out*)
Hello, everyone I don't know who you are
but I'll see you with a better look See you soon, bye- (Knock knock knock knock) (We can feel her energy
even from her knock) (I'm nervous) Please cover your eyes! You're not allowed to see (Peeking) Argh! Hey, why are you here? (This is how a super insider
in the universe comes in) Oh, I think I recognize the voice Please say hello to each other (Pretty voice-♪) (Super insider's voice↘) (An extraordinary super
insider in the universe) I told you, this is
a super insider in the universe (Showing they're real friends) (Curious) Since I can't call your names,
I'll call you Orange and Green Orange and Green You guys look like a carrot I feel like I may lose
my position to you today Leave work! (200% embarrassed) - I'll go, can you get along with each other?
- No, I need you! I'm so shy Ah, awesome! How do you feel
about each other? Well, with her extraordinary
energy from the beginning I think she's easy-going Oh! Right!! (Right) And cool (Cool-) And fresh- Fantastic! She keeps talking about fresh! Our members are not fresh- Ah- (She agreed unconsciously)
Why did she agree? (I don't know?) Orange, when you heard her voice I think she's Unni (elder sister) (Surprised) I call everyone
who's pretty Unni (^_^) Then am I too? No, except you And her voice is so sexy (Sexiness goes UP) (The air is heated up with
compliments) Oh my oh my! (Tap tap tap) Do you want me to
remove the partition now? No, no! (Sexy Green) I'll just relax And lead you although
I feel a little shy Oh- Don't worry! (Heart attack)
Unni- Song YUQI wouldn't let you down (???) (Partition: awkward) You know (Strong energy even the host can't handle)
I think I can't handle her today (The First Date) What's the most important
thing between friends? Borrowing money? Huh?? I think it's taste Right Let me check if you guys
can become taste soulmates After I count 1, 2, 3 If you can't answer in 3 secs,
you can buy me chicken (Dumbfounded) - Fried or seasoned chicken 1, 2, 3!
- Wait, wait, wait!! I'm a foreigner
Slow down, please Excuse me! Turururu
I don't get it Fried chicken or
seasoned chicken 1, 2, 3! (Different tastes from the beginning...)
I'm sorry! But I like fried chicken too Sometimes I also crave
for seasoned chicken Half and half Hamburger or sandwich 1, 2, 3! Hamburger!! - Everyone would pick hamburger-
- Of course, who would eat sandwich? (YEOREUM puzzled) Pork and rice soup or
bean sprout rice soup 1, 2, 3 Pork and rice soup! (Green is unconditionally on Orange's side)
Why would you eat bean sprout rice soup? Why not?? Why not? It's good!! Cheese cake or
chocolate cake 1, 2, 3 Chocolate cake!! (Same tastes in dessert as well!) These two have the same
tastes even in dessert I can bake this cake
I'll bake one for you Will you buy me
(a chocolate cake)? I said I'll bake it for you! Okay- Wow- your energy
is too strong today (The First Date) Are you happy 
with just the voice? What if you can touch
a part of each other? (Shy shy) What is this? - Where do you want to touch?
- Don't do that! I'll squeeze the
hand sanitizer for you You can put it on each other (Orange's hand carefully
comes through the partition) (Q. How did you feel when you
saw Orange's hand first?) Judging by the nail style She's a girly girl I think she likes
something cute and dainty (A girly girl)
Right Give me your hand! This is a very clever way
to touch someone in this time Through the partition Ah hahahahaha! (Shy Smile) Aargh- Aargh- this is weird! (Full of high-pitched screams...) What is this really? Aargh-! Please use both hands (Tap tap) Green, please put your hand in Why are you shaking your hand? Trust me trust me (YUQI's hand massage shop)
We give you a very soft massage - You look like you lately got your nail done
- Right Like this, oh?? (Why, what's wrong...?) (What did you find...?) You have a pimple (LOL) (LOL) You must get stressed a lot Right Glitters, I get scolded
by my group members Really get scolded (LOL) They would say it's tacky But I think it's so pretty We have so much in common We're WJSN (cosmic girls) Girls? Girl's Generation? Girls Generation By the way oh? Please say it again (Green does as she's told) (Oh my) Is she Ho Yeon? (No, I'm not) I've waited for this moment Turn your chairs
and sit face to face (Laugh) Who would it be? For real! Really it's for real! (YEOREUM, the master
of stalling for time) Before showing your face You need to look each other
in the eye for 10 secs Is it in the script or what? It's in here (Doubtful) Lean your body forward and
put your face close to the partition (A heartbeat moment)
Wow, just a second!! Hold on a second!! One, Aargh!! Wait a second!!! I'm surprised more One moment!! One, two, three! (Finally OPEN) (Startled) Oh, YUQI chicken! (Have to look each other in the eye for 10 secs)
Oh, what do I do? Hold on! (So shy) (Groaning) Why are you looking at me? (Slap slap)
I'm like the dirt between you! (Slap slap) (Oh my) Oh, I can't look at her
because she's too pretty What are you two doing? You didn't say that to me YUQI, you're pretty- (A compliment moment
easing awkwardness) (Don't forget☆
Look in the eye in 10 secs) (-A long 10 secs ended-) Oh, it was embarrassing The First Date You should not touch it (Hah…) Are you serious? (EXY suddenly interfered
between YEOREUM and YUQI!) Okay okay I hope YUQI will win That's right!!! (A risky relationship started
among the three) This is it!! Love isn't forever (The World of Friends) 