Hello~ Solarsido~ This is Solar! Balance game! VS game! 
There are a lot of names for it. Today I'll be trying this game where you choose one out of two things. (Official preference revealing GAME) I don't know the questions yet One of the staff members has prepared them. I'm going to choose them speedily first. And then I'll take the time to explain them. Now then, balance game, vs game, let's go!! [Sweet soybean paste stew vs Sour Korean pancake] Soybean paste stew! [Spicy milkshake vs Cold tteokbokki] Tteokbokk... What the heck- Cold tteokbokki, it's the worst.
(Hate even imagining it) Cold tteokbokki. (Still, tteokbokki❤) [No umbrella on a rainy day vs No air conditioner
or fan during a day with a heat wave] No umbrella on a rainy day. [Country where it's night 24 hours a day vs
Country where it's daytime 24 hours a day] Daytime for 24 hours. [T-shirt with snot on it vs Panties sticking out] Panties sticking out. Oh, that was new~
(Question was her type) [Read & ignore vs Don't read & ignore] Don't read and ignore. (Real friend's wedding)
[Cargo pants with 50 pockets vs Billed beret with 50 flowers on it] 50 pockets, oh, that's the worst... Billed beret with 50 flowers on it. [Solarsido 10 million followers 
vs 'SPIT IT OUT' MV 100 million views]
Solarsido 10 million followers! [Let's go, 10 million~~~] (During a stage, a moth gets in your mouth)
Spit it out vs Swallow it Spit it out (with hot lips) [Colleague 1 nagging for 24 hours vs
Colleague 1 meditating silently for 24 hours] Nagging Colleague 1. [Large cockroach that does the dishes for you
vs Water deer that dirties up your house] (Hates it quite a bit) [An water deer or.. Roach-teacher..] Water deer that dirties up your house. [Can only text,Katalk vs Can only have phonecalls] Phonecalls. [Get something caught in your windpipe while singing a ballad vs Intense voice crack while singing a dance song] Intense voice crack while singing a dance song. [Hot chocolate wearing a padded jacket in the summer vs Ice chocolate wearing a sleeveless shirt and shorts in the winter] Ice chocolate. (Toothpick prohibited)
[Chives stuck in your molars vs Chives stuck in your front teeth]
Ah geez. Front teeth. [Blue skin and pink hair vs Pink skin and blue hair] Pink skin and blue hair. [Dipping french fries in vinegar
vs Dipping sashimi/sushi in ketchup] Sashimi in ketchup. (What is that...) [Vomit flavored tomatoes vs Tomato flavored vomit] Ah, geez. (Ugh.. Hate it..) Vomit....Vomit flavored tomatoes. Still, a tomato is better.. [Curry flavored poop vs Poop flavored curry] Poop flavored curry.
(Overly-skilled diction) (On my shoulders)
[Dove with a very rough appearance vs Grasshopper with wings that span 2m] Dove with a very rough appearance. [Face with a butt vs Butt with a face] Face on your butt? (Serious) [Hold in burps after drinking carbonated drink vs Hold in farts after eating sweet potatoes]
Hold in burps [Flat carbonated drink vs Ice cream that's melted and become liquid]
Flat carbonated drink. [Go to 5 years into the past vs Go 5 years into the future]
Future [2m large hands vs 2m large feet]
Large hands (For one month)
Not washing your hair vs Not washing your face Not washing your face. (Company CEO battle)
Businessman Kim Do Hoon vs Producer Kim Jin Woo Businessman Kim Do Hoon. [❤I respect both of you❤] [Questions over - Explanation time] I'll explain why I made my choices. First of all, I like stews more than Korean pancakes. So I chose the soybean paste stew...
I also like sweet things. I don't like spicy milkshakes. (Stern) I like sweet things. But, I don't like cold tteokbokki either. Still, I think that would be better of the two. It's better to get rained on. Not having air conditioning or
 a fan during a heat wave.. It's hard to imagine it. [Awful...] T-shirt with snot on it VS Panties sticking out. Snot is sticky.. It's sticky, so... (Dislike stickiness) Panties sticking out, it doesn't have anything on it. In appearance, just, fashion. Read and ignore VS Don't read and ignore I think I said read and ignore. This is kind of half and half, read or don't read. I'll just read it.. If I ignore it, then, they'll contact me again! Then we talk. (So cool) Staff: I think you said don't read and ignore.. Oh, I said don't read and ignore? "Don't read and ignore" Ah, they said I said don't read and ignore.
(That's what I did..) (Embarrassed) They said I chose don't read and ignore.. I don't read and ignore.. I don't read it.. And I don't ignore it! (Is that possible..?) I don't do it! Pass for now. I'd rather she nag. It's frustrating if you're silent. I get so frustrated.. I'll be like, 'Please talk!'.
(Predicting Colleague 1's nagging will increase) Water deer are cute. So, if this dirties things up, I can clean it up. But, a large cockroach cleaning up..? Even if that thing turns my house
 upside down and cleans it up, I hate it. Cockroach, sorry. Solarsido 10 million subscribers
VS 100 million views on SPIT IT OUT MV. Both are good! But.. 10 million Solarsido subscribers is.. I'm in the position of doing Solarsido.. And, right now this is Solarsido, so.. I chose Solarsido 10 million subscribers.
(You're subscribing and liking, right~?) If there are 50 pockets, I think I'd, first of all, hate it. Way too much storage. If there are 50 flowers instead, it's somewhat.. I think it would have some kind of vibe to it. Like, fashion? (made by Solarsido) I'd rather have phonecalls. I can't stand frustrating things. I think it's better to talk on the phone. (Honest) I've had quite a few times where
my voice cracked during a dance song. That's.. Still.. Cute~ (Please look at it cutely) I'm not that good at eating hot things. Even in winter. The way you look removing something
from molars is a bit.. Dirty. I thought it'd be better just removing 
it from your front teeth It's funny that I'm explaining something like this. If I had to choose between the two I've done pink hair before So I chose blue hair this time. (This kind of vibe..?) I'd rather dip sashimi in ketchup I like ketchup, so dipping sashimi in it.. That's okay. To the point that I could eat it now. Is that so... (Hm.. Is that so..) Vomit flavored tomatoes, vomit flavored. 'Vomit flavored' to(matoes) are still tomatoes. That's why I thought a tomato would be better.. Vomit, it would be tomato flavored.. But, it's..vomit.. So, vomit flavored tomatoes
(Don't even want to imagine it) I would be able to eat it thinking 'it's vomit flavored', but it is a tomato... (Question that's on the level of a listening test..) (Since ther aren't vomit flavored tomatoes^'^) This as well. Since it is curry, poop flavored.. [Only look at pretty things, Yongwangnims..] It's strange. This one is a dove. Because I'm a dove.. I want peace. So, a butt has a face? If there's a butt on your face, it's too.. Brazenly.. Passing by, your butt would completely show.
(This isn't something to be so serious about.) But, if you have a face on your butt 'If you have a face on your butt..' Oh? Then your face can't be seen..? But, I think it would be better to have it on your butt.. A butt on your face? Shy~ Shy~ Eat sweet potatoes and [resist] farting.. If you hold in your farts for too long.. Your face turns yellow. So guys, don't ever hold it in. (Serious) You can hold in burps! It's my personal thought. 
(That was Solar official.) I like flat carbonated drinks. Normally, my taste. For me, my past 5 years.. I know them already. (Solar 5 years ago) I always seek new things So, I'm curious about my future 5 years. Since it will be new. So I chose 5 years into the future. So, the size of my hands, I think would be better. Because my hands are small They've never been big. So, I'm curious about having big hands,
 which is why I chose that. Not washing my hair for one month 
VS not washing my face for one month. I've gone 10 days before without washing my hair, but.. Any more than that.. I've gone 2 weeks before. But one month.. That's, I can't. (One month is too much) That's too hard for me. I think it would be better to not wash my face. Staff: Why didn't you wash your hair for 2 weeks..? (Suddenly embarrassed) For 2 weeks.. Why didn't I wash my hair for 2 weeks..
(Why did I do that..?) Just because. I like Bboongbboong-E~♪ Why?~♪ Just because, just because~♪ I just didn't wash it! Just, because it was troublesome? CEO Kim Do Hoon is both running
a business and producing right now But CEO Kim Jin Woo is a businessman. So.. I'll just stop there.
(The question was a mistake) Anyway, today Thank you to the RBW family 
members who prepared this~ Applause~
(Calm down, calm down) There are really a lot of people here. It's really quiet, but yeah.
[Employees who unite well] (Employee1/2/3/4) Anyway, thank you for watching today's challenge. I wanted to share my preferences a bit
with Yongwangnims, so I prepared this challenge. Next time, I will return with another great challenge. Bye~ Satff: Is there something that's a bit memorable? Memorable? The tomato...flavored vomit, vomit flavored tomato. I just hate it. I'm going to try this.. 