Oh, hey guys, I'm just standing here trying to make a list of all the teams I'm on. It turns out, I belong to quite a few. Oh, but these aren't sports teams I'm on No, no, these are my life teams religious affiliation, political party, fandoms favorite NFL teams... Oh...I guess Sports is on here... And this is just to name a few I think it's really important that everyone spends at least some time figuring out which life teams they belong to I mean, your life teams are your everything and they dictate the kind of people you will interact with on a daily basis because you wouldn't want to hang out with people that aren't on your team, right? (Josh) One...two...three... (Both) Protestant! (yes!) (Kelli) Alright, that's aweseome, Ok.. Do you love or do you hate the Big Bang Theory? One...two...three... (Both) Hate It! (Josh) That's amazing! Ok, who are you gonna vote for? ready...one two...three... (Kelli)  Hillary................
(Josh) Bernie Sanders (Kelli) Well, it was fun while it lasted I guess (Josh) At least we have the Big Bang Theory Ugghh I hate people that aren't members of my life teams They're my sworn enemies! I-I'm sorry, I must have heard you wrong did you just say that you don't like Twenty One Pilots? I...It's just that I think they're okay This reflects poorly on your choice in music and therefore your character you can go back to listening to your bubblegum pop that you consider music! Yeah! But I really just try to insulate myself so that I only associate with my teammates That way I don't have to be exposed to the stupidity of any opposing teams Hi, I'm Josh! Oh, hey, uh...just a sec... (Mumbling) Hang on...let me just make sure... (Mumbling) check...good...good... Perfect, Man! I love how you... you put your life teams on your chest like that It just makes it so easy to know if I can associate with you or not Look, there's no way to say this nicely, ok? Most people... are stupid! They pick bad life teams! It's an easy thing to do thankfully that's why I'm here Meet the only person in the history of humanity who has picked every single correct lifeteam My views on God? Nailed it! My opinions on government? A-plus! My thoughts on socio-economics? Not my strongest subject... but I shared a meme on Facebook that I thought made a lot of sense, okay? I'm a genius! That's why it's so bewildering to me when I hear anyone speaking negatively about one of my life teams I mean, I would think it was funny if it weren't so triggering! See I know in my heart that I'm not wrong about anything so I...I just do not understand disagreeing with me I mean...you know that makes you wrong, right? (Jordan) Oh God I thought you were on my team! (Josh) Oh...I'm really sorry... (Jordan) I do not know how to physically deal with this right now! Thankfully, I've developed a catch-all phrase you can use to shut down anyone who says anything that you disagree with And that phrase is remember now... Istphobic What this word is... It's like every type of -ist word that will ever be invented Racist...sexist...ageist... combined with every type of phobic you can possibly be Transphobic...xenophobic...phobic phobic... you name it! You are it if you're not in my life teams (Josh) Hmm...yeah I don't know I just don't see it that way...I think it's a little more complicated than that (Jordan) Wow Josh, didn't realize you were such an... Istphobe! (Josh) Wha-wha-whoh...I am not an istphobe (Jordan) you're not my life team so... Istphobic! Now look, some people might think that by saying all people that disagree with me are istphobic I've created somewhat of a false choice But...that's just a strawman, ok? because I don't actually know what a straw man argument is that's just something I say to get out of explaining myself No I have not created a false choice by saying that if you disagree with my life team then that automatically makes you an istphobe which is the worst thing you could ever be in the history of humanity! That's not a false choice... that's just the truth honestly, I'm think I'm sensing some hostility coming through the computer screen over there right now As if some of you are doubting me and it's making me rather uncomfortable because I don't like to be challenged... I...I think I need a minute, ok... Isn't there a debate on tonight or something? Why don't you guys go watch that while I recover... Tonight, millennials address the candidates in the first presidential debate Our first question comes from Libby Let's hear what she has to say. Hi, my name is Libby I belong to political life team A My question is how do you plan to shut down opposing political views so I don't have to be exposed to the istphobic people on political life team B? Wow, loaded question for our candidates now, before you both answer we also have another question on this same topic This one comes from millennial Adler Let's take a listen Hi there my name is Adler I belong to political life team B my question is how do you plan to shut up that woman that just spoke before I did? She was literally the worst and not very patriotic either Well, as you can see two very different points of view have been presented to our candidates Since there was more than one point of view presented that means that one of them must be correct But who was it? Political life team A? Or political life Team B? Well I guess we'll just have to wait until november to find out 