Barbecue to be a little bit more
specific American Barbecue. Honestly it is so good and we all love it. For
meat-eaters there's nothing better than a barbecue feast, that is a fact. And as
we all know the most iconic piece of meat in any barbecue is always the
brisket. Because let's face it, a perfectly cooked brisket is truly meat
heaven. When I dry aged one and cooked it it was almost like an outer-body
experience, or what I like to call the waterfall that every single meat lover
loves to see. Come on take a look at that. But there is one thing that I have never
done before and that is to cook the jewel of all briskets I'm talking about
a Wagyu brisket. But that is all about to change today so let's do it. And this is
the star of the show. It is a 14 pound Wagyu packer brisket
with marbling score 9, the highest brisket grading that ever sat on my
cutting board. And just opening it is an awesome experience by itself. The
excitement of removing the first layer and being revealed with this. Wow! That my
friends is something you do not see every day. Come on!
Not many pieces of meat get me excited like this one. But as I continue to open
up and removing the rest of the packaging, this is what I was left with.
My very first marbling score 9 packer brisket, and it is a beauty. Now I want to
have the best possible experience with this brisket and I am NOT gonna let
anything go to waste. So the first thing I'm gonna be doing is removing all the
external fat. If you've watched my videos previously you know that wagyu fat is
quite different than a regular fat. Not only does it taste different it also
feels different. It almost starts surrendering just by the heat of your
fingers, so I definitely want to use that fat and not let it go to waste.
Now to have the best possible experience with this brisket I'm going to be doing
something I've never done on the channel, that is to separate both muscles the
flat and also the point. This will allow me to cook every single muscle
individually giving it the attention it deserves. So I grabbed my sharpest knife and
started separating the muscles. The part you see me grabbing right there is
called the point and it is the most fattiest part of the brisket. So I work
nice and slowly to make sure that I leave most of the fat on the bottom part,
which is the flat. But once I was done with the trimming this is what it looks
like. As you can see the flat I like to leave a quarter inch of fat. The point
however I removed all of it, since there's a lotta intramuscular fat
internally there's no need to leave any of the external fat. Now here's how I'm
gonna be cooking both pieces of meat. The flat itself I'm gonna be cooking like a
regular brisket, because if there's one thing all of my family loves is nice
slices of brisket. The point on the other hand I'm actually gonna be making some
burnt ends, that way will give me a nice overall experience with this wonderful
brisket to enjoy. The next thing to do is to get it seasoned and for that I only
added salt and freshly ground black pepper nothing else. For a nice wonderful
piece of meat like this you definitely don't want to use any other type of
seasoning, you really want to taste the beef. But let's not forget about the fat
this is what I was left with with all of the trimmings.
There's no way that I'm gonna let this go to waste. I'm gonna transform it into
beef tallow and it is extremely easy to do, here's how. Using my powerful outdoor
gas stove and cast-iron I set everything outside, because I highly recommend you
doing this in the good old outdoors, if not the smell is just gonna completely
overpower your house. The next thing to do is pretty straightforward you just
kind of keep it under medium low heat to render all of that fat. It is extremely
important not to burn it because once you are done you should be left with
beautiful beef tallow. And as you've seen before this thing is good for many
things, including replacing your regular cooking oil that you use every day. But
now going back to our brisket, to cook it I'm gonna be using my Camp Chef pellet
cooker. I'll be setting about 275 degrees Fahrenheit.
I'm actually not shooting for any type of internal temperature but I am looking
for feel. When I poke it any feels like butter I'll know it's ready. Once it has smoked for four hours I will actually be
wrapping it to speed up the process. For that I'll be using aluminum foil. So now
I say it is enough talking and it is time to cook them. So let's do it! All right everybody we have our
beautiful barbecue spread here what do you think Angel. Huh? -Bro we got the flat
the point, the burnt ends, I don't know what else we need, we got a sandwich. -Look at this boy
knows everything already. Yes we have a huge feast today. This is supposed to be
kind of like a you know brisket experiment. So not experiment experience. -Oh ok. You know what I'm saying.  different things. So we're gonna start
right here yeah. Which is a lot of people do like the flat and some people don't
like the flat most people obviously like the point because the point has more
fatness on it. But I do like the flat. I'll tell you one
thing that is as tender as it gets everybody, because check it out. Let's
pass out the tenderness test first of all quick pull test. You saw that Angel? -It worked. -I repeat. -Okay. Nice and tender. -How about this one? -Just the way it's supposed to be. Yeah the bend test is bending. -All right enough. You ready? Cheers everybody. -Cheers. -Oh come on, oh come on. Nice smoky flavor but
not over smokey. You know what I mean? It is a nice clean smoke everybody. -Yeah. -What do
you think Angel? -No this is perfect, it's perfect.
-Not too, not overpowering over the smoke you know I mean. That is the secret,
because you want to taste the beef everybody you don't want to make it too
smoky. Okay let's go right here yeah. The point? Now I make kind of like you know
little point cubes. -Yeah I see that.I guess you would say, you know I mean. One bite one
thing, it should be a nice perfect bite. Cheers everybody. -Cheers. -Mmm.  -Oh boy! -That's dangerous. -It's like meat butter
everybody that's all I gotta say about that. -This one was really good. -Yeah. -But when
you come over here you got the juices and the fats and and like melts in your
mouth. I don't know. -Yeah what happens is so much more
fattier you know the point over here everybody that it's just a tremendous
huge, difference. Now this brisket is quite special did you feel a little bit
of extra fattiness on it? -Yeah I've been tasting a lot of fat. -Good
fat, bad fat? -Good. -Good fat, look at this boy. -Yes it is this is a wagyu brisket
by the way. It's a Wagyu brisket. -I didn't even know they made that. -Yeah I know, I
know, I know,  you can tell that it's a little bit richness and a little bit more I
would say intense flavor. But at the same time it's not nothing like a wagyu steak. You agree? -No it doesn't taste like steak it tastes like brisket and then
on top of that it doesn't have that overpowering kind of fat, you know what
I'm saying. Cuz sometimes you can't really eat a full Wagyu A5 like the
whole. - There's no way. -It's so fatty it's like you're gonna feel a little bit
bad afterwards a lot of fat. -It's to rich. -Yea it's too rich that's the word. -It's too rich. You can not eat  the whole thing. This doesn't feel like it's too rich. -Right. I can eat  the whole thing by myself right
here and this one here too. -Yeah well there you go. -Now which one here do you prefer? You prefer the
leaner or the fattier part? Ha, ha. Okay let's go jump into the burnt ends yeah. -Okay. -This one is the same exact thing as the other one Angel, but the difference is that I
put it mixed it up with a little bit of barbecue sauce, yea. 
And cooked it a little bit longer as well, so should be a little bit
more tender. Cheers everybody. -Cheers. -Mmm -I'll go for another one right away. Tell me Angel huh? -You look happier. C'mon! -That's a good one. That's a good one. I give you that. -That's a good one everybody. I give you that one. That's a good one! Now I wish I made all of these like that, you know what I mean. But you know we're trying it out to let
you guys know which one is better this is phenomenal. Agree? -Oh yea.
-This is incredible everybody. Now since the fat is kind of lean I made
a little barbecue sandwich to go along with it with a garlic bread yeah Angel. 
-Oh. -Ah garlic bread, ah it smells amazing everybody that's all I gotta say about that.
It smells incredible. Little sandwich. You ready Angel. Cheers buddy. Oh That is what this was made to be, as a
brisket sandwich everybody. That is incredible.
-I think all of you need to try this even if it's not a Wagyu brisket right you
got a nice brisket and you make this sandwich, I think you're gonna enjoy no
matter what. Anyway guys I hope you enjoyed this video if you do enjoy make
sure to give it a thumbs up. If you're not a subscriber be sure to subscribe
for future videos. Remember if you're interested in any of the equipment I use
everything is always on the description down below. Thank you so much for
watching and we'll see you guys on the next one. Take care everybody. Bye-bye. 