Welcome to How To Cook That i'm Ann Reardon and 
this week we are recreating the Billionaires   Soft Serve ice cream that costs 99 pounds and 
I'm gonna get my boys to compare it to a normal   Choc Top ice cream to see which one is better. 
Apparently it takes four hours to make one!   Let's do it and see ... ready set go! Firstly 
some caramel, put some sugar and some water   and some glucose syrup into a pan and stir 
over high heat until the sugar is dissolved.   Wash down the sides of the pan using 
lots of water and a wet pastry brush.   You can see the little sugary granules on the side 
of the pan here and if we don't wash those down   once we've made the caramel it will then 
crystallize and it won't be like caramel anymore.   Then we just leave that to boil unstirred 
and that can take a few minutes so while I'm   waiting because the clock is ticking, I'm going to 
heat up some passionfruit and then add into that   some grated fresh ginger and give it a stir. Once 
that's nice and hot i'm just going to turn off the   heat. The reason I was heating it up was so that 
ginger flavor can infuse into the passionfruit   liquid. Back to the caramel those bubbles have 
slowed down and it's starting to look golden so   now I'm going to add in the milk. Be careful when 
you do that that you don't get burnt by all the   steam that comes off and I obviously need to swap 
to a bigger pan and there we go ... add the cream   and give it a stir then you want to let that 
bubble away until it reaches 107 degrees C.   Pour it into a heat proof bowl and sprinkle on 
some salt. Now i know this looks really runny   right now but trust me it will thicken up as it 
cools and it will be perfect. Because i'm trying   to make this quickly I'm going to put the bowl in 
a sink of cold water to take out the heat faster   water is really good at drawing the heat out of 
things. Back to our passionfruit and ginger I'm   going to strain that through a sieve because 
I don't want the seeds and I don't want those   little chunks of ginger. Just stir it with a spoon 
to get as much of the liquid through as possible   and then that looks pretty good. Pour that into 
a blender and add a tin of mango. Puree them   together until it's smooth and then tip it into a 
ziploc bag flattening it out so that it can chill   faster and put that into the freezer just to get 
it really cold. Now for the ice cream ... heat the   milk in a pan and all these recipe quantities are 
on the HowToCookThat.net website for you so you   can make it at home too. Instead of using sugar 
I'm going to use some of the salted caramel that   we just made and that will make the soft serve 
that salted caramel flavor that we're after.   Whisk that together with the egg yolks and then 
whisk that into the hot milk. Now technically   you should really add some of the hot milk into 
the yolks first to temper them but if you whisk   really fast you can get away with doing it 
this way and I'm in a hurry. Heat that up to   78 degrees centigrade or 178 degrees F and then 
remove it from the heat and add in the cream   and again because I want this to chill quickly I'm 
going to pour it into a Ziploc bag place it flat   in the freezer. Moving on to the chocolate sorbet 
... oh my goodness I've used up 40 minutes of my   time already! Okay put the water into a pan and 
add some sugar and cocoa powder and whisk that   over the heat this makes a really dark chocolate 
sorbet, if you didn't want it quite so dark   then you could leave out some of the cocoa 
I guess and yes you guessed it once that's   all ready pour it into a bag so that it can cool 
quickly. The mango ginger passionfruit mixture is   now chilled enough so I can cut off the corner 
and add it into the ice cream bowl to churn.   Now I will save a little bit of this mixture for 
the sauce because that was also mango passionfruit   and ginger flavored so I'm assuming it's the 
same thing, it tastes really good as it is.   While that's churning I need to move on so let's 
make the macarons. Sift together the almond meal   and icing sugar and then whip together the egg 
whites sugar and red food coloring until you get   stiff dry peaks. Add the almond meal mixture 
and fold the two together until it looks the   thickness of slowly flowing lava. Pipe that 
onto lined baking trays ... now i've got   enough mixture to make three trays of macaroon 
shells, I only need two shells per ice cream so   this is eating into my time. I don't even know 
if they make their own shells at the ice cream   place or if they just buy them but anyway, 
bang the tray on the bench to smooth the tops   and get rid of any air bubbles and bake them. 
Time to check on the mango sorbet that's ready,   so i'm just going to put that in a container in 
the freezer. Now put the chocolate gelato on to   churn. This is actually a second ice cream bowl, 
I have more than one of these, you can't just   use the same one twice unless it's been back in 
the freezer it has to be really cold or it's not   actually going to work. To make a chocolate spoon 
with a pattern you're going to need to cut out   some chocolate transfer sheet and you'll need a 
spoon mold of course. Add some tempered chocolate.   Now I'm making enough to make one for everyone 
in the family because on Saturday nights during   lockdown we've been having a movie night at 
home with homemade choc-tops. Melbourne has   had the longest lockdown in the world apparently 
so we've been entertaining ourselves. Time to   decorate the cones ... now the lady at the shop 
said it takes 20 minutes to make one of these.   Now I agree it is time-consuming because you 
have to place each decoration separately with   a pair of tweezers. I found that if you put it 
on its side and you can kind of drop each one   on rather than trying to hold it in place till it 
sets it is much quicker and I can do one of these   in about six minutes rather than 20 minutes. How 
much time have i got left on my timer? 37 minutes   what?! There's so much more left to do. Okay 
white chocolate salted caramel truffles,   I would normally make my own truffle cases but 
theirs looked like they'd bought them. You can   buy hollow truffle shells like this from chocolate 
companies and then just fill them yourself.   This is of course the salted caramel that we 
made at the very start, so we'll just fill   each of those up and then you just close off the 
base with a bit more tempered white chocolate.   I would of course prefer these in milk chocolate 
instead of white chocolate but I just don't love   white chocolate what's your preference? Milk, 
dark white? Let me know in the comments. Oh   gosh I'm cutting this fine, the ice cream needs to 
churn for 15 minutes ... I should have put this on   earlier ... go go go! Okay while that's churning 
I need to make the pecan brittle, put some sugar   into a pan with a little bit of water let it boil 
wash down the sides of the pan with water just   like we did before and while this is boiling put 
the pecans into an oven to warm while we wait for   this to go golden and then when it's ready pour 
it over the pecans. Having the nuts and the tray   hot just gives you a little bit longer to stir 
this around and make sure they're all covered,   it does start to set pretty quickly though so you 
don't have long. Chuck some isomalt into a pan and   melt it and then pour it into a diamond shape mold 
and level it off ... oh no! I was so close, well   sort of I'm nearly up to assembly. Can I finish it 
off? Yes, I'm gonna keep going. All right get the   pecan brittle and chop it into smaller bits and 
then put some caramel on a flake and wrap it in   a 100% pure gold leaf ... now make sure you don't 
use gold leaf that's for art because that often   contains other heavy metals that are dangerous 
for us to eat. Gold itself we don't digest,   it just goes straight through it is tasteless so 
it has no function except for just to look pretty.   Take the isomalt diamonds out of their mold, 
isomalt also has no taste so this is just for   looks too. Dip the top of the macaron shell into 
some white chocolate and then add those isomalt   diamonds on top and sprinkle with edible glitter. 
Gently take the spoons out of the mold and remove   the transfer sheet. The patterns on these 
transfer sheets are just colored cocoa butter.   Our ice cream is now churned and all of 
our parts are finally ready to assemble.   Put the peanut brittle into the base of the cone, 
this is really yummy you should just make yourself   some of this. Then pipe in some salted caramel 
soft serve add a ball of mango sorbet followed   by a ball of dark chocolate sorbet. I have a whole 
tub of this stuff we only needed a little ball.   Top with a generous amount of salted caramel ice 
cream ... apparently the finished one should weigh   300 grams and I think we're gonna make that really 
easily. Add the gold-coated flake and a spoon,   it's quite tricky to get these in because of those 
sorbet balls that are under the ice cream. Now a   pipette of mango ginger and passionfruit sauce. 
Add a white chocolate salted caramel truffle,   a diamond-encrusted macaron and 
another sheet of gold right on the top.   Now that did take me four and a half hours to make 
one soft serve ice cream! But now that I have all   those elements made, making a second one only 
takes 10 minutes. I'll get my boys to rate these   in a minute but first a word from today's sponsor. 
The LG XBOOM Go pl2 Jellybean speakers, you can   by the pool. Okay let's see how the boys rate the 
Billionaire's soft serve ... what rating would you   give it out of 10? Um i really love the pecans 
at the bottom so I'd probably give it an 8.5.   The dark chocolate sorbet was a hit and the ginger 
in it was a nice touch as well. I think I'd give   it an 8. I really liked the flake so I think I 
would give it a 7 out of 10. The Billionaire's   soft serve costs 99 pounds. 99 pounds that's 
like $200 that's insane! Pounds? That's crazy   expensive. That is an awful amount of money. Now 
to see if you think it's worth even half of that   price ... as you know normally on a Saturday 
movie night we would have a homemade Chop Top,   what if next Saturday night you could have another 
Billionaire's ice cream or you could have a choc   top and an LG XBOOM Go pl2 jellybean? I'd take 
the speaker for sure. What color? Um, the ice mint   one. That looks good. Ice mint it is. Thank you 
very nice. I would prefer to have the normal Choc   Top and the jellybean speaker. Wise boy and 
what color would you like? Uh watermelon.   Watermelon is a limited edition one you actually 
can't buy this at the shops they just sent one   of those to us and here's your chop-top. 
Definitely the jellybean and the chocolate.   What color would you like? Oh um, I would 
like the sour lemon one thanks, I thought   that one looked really sick. Sour lemon and a choc 
top! Perfect that leaves me with the bubblegum   and I am going to run a competition for my patrons 
to give the bubblegum one away. So if you are a   patron make sure you go over to the Patreon page 
and enter the competition there. If you're not a   patron, you can join them and I do want to say 
thank you to all of my patrons for being so   wonderful and thank you for all of your support 
I really appreciate it. You can check out more   indulgent desserts here. Make it a great week by 
being kind to others and I'll see you on Friday. 