Jinna Oh 8 out of 10 cats does countdown Hello and welcome to a load of ten cats does countdown The show that combines the breezy humor of countdown with the academic rigor of eight out of 10 cats Let's meet tonight's players. First up its team captain Sean Locke When Sean took part in let's play darts for comic relief He called himself the Midwife not because he always delivers but because on this show He says he's always surrounded by a massive bunch of bots. Let's leave that there I'm Johnny Sean tonight, Sara Pascoe Sara has published a book about the female body. I read the pop-up edition unusual book. It was me that did the popping up Up against him this evening. It's guest team. Captain Alan Carr Alan Carr he's what it would look like. If God had said, I like humans But what would it look like if I replace their teeth with some broken custard creams? In that don't an Allen steam a Tom Allen I'm trying not to mention the shape of Tom's head this evening, but it's really difficult you end up walking on eggshells, dammit Tom's career has really taken off recently. He's hosting bake-off the professionals. He's been on Channel 4's Comedy Gala In fact, the only thing that could stop him now is if he sat on a wall and had a great fall And I hear you've had a new addition to the family yeah, yeah, I rescued a dog from Korea It was gonna be a turn in a meat festival and I because the dogs are like a delicacy there. Oh, yeah Yeah, but the dogs ever so small. I mean you'd have to have like a side of fries or summat with it. I mean Every vallah fun but yet You rescued a starter Do you know the weirdest thing ever gone I came in the room the other day And it was sitting in the chair like a human watching pointless Yeah, we got a picture of this look We just like because if that's like a man in a suit Okay, Sarah, what is your greatest fear Probably weddings I hate weddings Look, I understand the thing about like loving someone forever. Like that's lovely, but the rest of it come on Five weddings last year all of them had hash tags The worst one they sang their vows I was watching thinking this is what happiness. Looks like I'm glad I'm depressed It wasn't like funky singing it wasn't a call cool like in a film it was incredibly earnest Hey to Use their real names Weddings, I think they're awful I don't think I think if you just if you want the tenant should has become a stand-up comedian like everybody else. I kicked over a baby once In a really fast conger and can't get off I was lucky and this baby game out that okay, Tom what? Told you do you think you and Alan will make a good team? Well, finally I think we're gonna bring some masculinity to this Scene you and you mincing around here. We're sick of you pussies We're here to bring a bit of bloke eNOS to the whole experience, yeah Fed up with you talking all the time of yeah nearly about everything I've been very nearly in the Right Shawn bang to rights is something we're gonna start saying in our masculine way Okay, I'm sure have you got a mascot. Yes. A lot of people say to me Shawn. Well life seems so smooth So effortless you never seem to have any problems. How'd you do it? And I said it's cuz I I've got loads of life hacks You know, I've come up with a book of my life acts just ways to make your life easier There we go. Okay, Shawn's life hacks instead of eating a sandwich. Just put it straight in the bin and Later, you won't need to go to the toilet Time saved on your suitcase when you're going on holiday right Ghoulies in white paint so you know, it's your bag Extend the life of your cause yet by keeping them in a condom Earlier I thought was Alan's Way that in my face That Jimmy I got loads of them instead of making a cup of tea make a gallon drink a cup and freeze the rest Use it when you just fancy a cup of tea put it in a saucepan and half an hour later You've got a lovely cup of tea And also, you can do this with coffee and bath water and I'll do one more save money on fireworks by rubbing your eyes Thanks, everyone So you got a mascot yes what do you got and one of the things I find really difficult on the show is the letters and the mouse and But I think the reason I'm finding them difficult is the concentration I get distracted. Oh look this Sherlock. Oh look this Rachel so I thought who's really good at concentrating horses. And so I've got myself blinkers like a horse We're doing the rounds I won't I won't even look at Sean Just I just do my work this horse on the high street like it doesn't know you're there It looks a little bit like a jockey is teabagging you buy Whole gym it Ok, um Tom you got a mascot well actually yes, I do Jimmy Um, I decided to bring along as my mascot. It's a gay rugby team. Ladies gentlemen, please welcome the Wessex wyverns Is the Wessex wyverns gay rugby team now this is Daniel he likes cross stitch. This is Nick. He had an argument recently with his uncle about blue Passport This is James. He likes playing rugby and he likes playing older men off of one another I've always wanted to be their mascot. So I thought what could be better than if I asked them along as my mascot tonight um, what why do you want to be their mascot and Because my type is officially men who are chunky and kind I Need to feel safe and also because I am very very lonely Have you met Tom before we've never heard of him before Hello As a rugby team maybe you have you got a mascot the moment we do my niece yeah well she's actually not as good as she thinks she is and She needs to watch herself because that jobs got my name written all over it So all of you can shut up and get off the stage actually The reason I put them in here I'm Alan and if you want mascot, yes. Yes I have Kula is it well I've had a blockage. It's a fat bug. I Actually have dined a rod round so this is all the stuff they found stuck down my sewer DVD look at the irony of that Sweet corn there. I mean I know it goes through you but it's still in the can they oh This is where it is bloody ale oh, it's celebrity tipping point now I'm out There's actually a photo they a signed photo of Cliff Richard I've waited for the court case to carry on but I panicked and just tried to get rid of it Heystop dog everyone Well over into 338 Rosie comes Rosie it's your first time. Okay. Don't tell us a little bit about yourself well, hello, I'm Rosie and I am a character Comedian A laughing and should not be a Garen Is She pretending to be - I report Yo Jeff Susie dense Soozee dentist promised to send me a copy of every single one of her books and I hope they arrive soon because tomorrow is bin day Susie have you been researching anything new recently? I'm looking at body language a bit it was really interesting and you know the obvious things about Defensive and looking down you're shy and all that stuff. He's like really micro gestures that tell you that send you a message Women turning their back on you Jimmy. For example, I Genuinely found this I had no idea about this partly There's a three-second rule that if you gazed at somebody hold someone's gaze more than three seconds It means that you're the kiss or kill. Well, let's let's try this. All right Try to decide the order That's fascinating Yeah, genuinely faster stop right there all right quick on your head Okay in charge of the numbers, it's Rachel Riley Rachel you're starring in a new sci-fi film. I assume or your Empress of the fairies. I Just looked open. So Alan and Tom both going like this. And then oh we were saying we love it Dooley Such a bitch stop I love the masculinity Well Rachel you're a Manchester United supported you ever get any stick from other supporters Um, well the United fans there was a lot nicer I was spotted on a tube going To a cup final once by United fans and they started singing a song about me just made up on the spot It was Rachel Riley isn't red is red is red. Rachel. Riley is a red. She hates Carroll Okay, the price the teams will be competing Waterland, is this the countdown bagpipes Okay, let's countdown everyone time for the first game Alan and Tom you get to pick the first lot of letters I love what you have four consonants. Sure. I don't mind. Yeah D and P can you move them a bit of that thing on your shoulder. Thank you but beginning of a migraine that twinkling I Think wings. Have you got on backwards? No I mean A guy you won again Cocktail party How many vowels three three fouls, please I don't mind that you choose how about you're ordering you know You've got to try their confidence here. They're delicious. Absolutely delish I'm driving Thanks for the first time today, here's the countdown clock Sorry Susie I was messing about with her. Yeah Why they're two men under you're see what we do with that doll Allen how many six tommy how many 7 7 Sarah 6 6 okay What is your 6 sir last like when you get rid of lice l owe us CD Your 6 AB mopeds Sean your 7 modules I Mean easily impressed this crowd The Wimbledon crowd up. Yeah Tom what's your 7? Well, I went one better than Sean and I went for nodules Suzie Rosie, could they have done any better? What you think Rosie your admins? And be mone what are you moaning, you know that really fancy dessert with lots of layers on it today I Didn't read al Qaeda, so I said sure boom war Spam one too long One two, okay, so the end of that both teams have seven points Numbers round Sean Sarah you got the first pick of the numbers get my tea bags on Please that ones Thank you for little first watch and learn seven ten big ones 175 903 okay your time starts now So the target was 9:03 Allen did you get it Did you get all I had When you hear like an ambulance and you're driving along Tom did you do any better? 940 I got well I could get nearer than that. I Mean you could just do that closer than that. What did you get? Hello? Kotti up Sure, did you get it? Yeah Shawn you got it and sir. I presume you got it because you were all focused You're in the zone their fingers and they being sarcastic It's the closest I've ever got I got 901 this is working as a system Okay Shawn. How did you do it ten times? 110 times 100 1000 minus 75 9 to 5. Okay 4 times 7 is 28 take it away then out to 6 perfect The school calendar top on seven or nasarah are on 17 And here is your teaser the words are red moves The clue is where the magic happens that's red moobs where the magic happens see after the break The answer to the tease the words were read moves the clue was where the magic happens It was of course bedrooms So sure that Sarah are in the lead Sean if you've got any more of those life hacks Make life a bit easier for the rest of us. Yeah Is it bad luck in it Okay, there's another one sublet from charity shops, they didn't pay for the stuff so whose is anyway The security in charity shops is usually just an old woman in a tebab Avoid the pain of a tattoo by rolling around on wet newspaper She's dancing, uh There's more there's more save money on herbal tea drop a Glade plugin into a mug of hot water Hey just finished an apple. What are you gonna do with the core you gonna throw it away? Hey, you know, oh You're gonna make a lovely decoration. Look at that You think they really make Christmas lovely update chores, why facts Okay, who's been playing your team so far but this game is just for Alan and Sarah so Sarah your turn to choose Yeah total focus Your tiny Christmas tree away are we keeping that oh, yes that distraction you blame kids are a bitch yeah, how did you say that The trouble is horses love apples You've already got into character A consonant S. Consonant to consonant The vowel o Vowel I Consonant why why? Oh, yeah, I guess it is, isn't it? Things you feel like it's evolved and consonant Another continent place and s okay your time starts now Babe once a 1j1 to debate what? In the burns I'm Sara how many seven seven Alan harmony. I've got a risky six a risky six. Okay. What's your what's your six? moisty a Bit moist in here this takes a bit moister. Yeah. Yeah Yeah, moist E is there unfortunately well lovely for Alan but a horrible word it means of weather moist or damp House convinced you made it up It's fucking thing, what are you actually in control of it Jimmy? I mean son control, but not much What's your work are you'll be proud of me Jimmy this is such a countdown word. I've got the word mascots. Yes Seven points for your team Sarah Rosie Susie, could they have done any better mystics? Okay, so at the end of that Alan and Tom have seven Shana Sarah have twenty-four points Right now time for a shorter time to go head to head Tom your turn to pick the numbers can I have Six numbers please Rachel. Yep seventy-five ten eight four Seven and 25 And the target just for you dick thing thing Okay your time starts now So the target was 666 the number of the beast a Style Then unlettered than Vindi, so can I just say that Okay, six six six, did you get it six six six six a pretty close eye Sean, how'd you do six six five? Yeah, he's on fire. How did you get 665 I got 665 Jimmy by using all those numbers Eight times 75 is 600 800 600 7 minus 4 is 3 yeah times 25 is 75 Add that on and take away the 10 Rachel could it be done 666 you say 75 plus 7 is 82 times by 8 is 656 add on the 10 for the side of the beach Time now to go across the dictionary torn up Rosie Jones, what have you got for us? Well as People look at me and they go Blood says she's a girl all that poses Don't be your soul mate. Heart base being disabled is Amazing And you show units Thanking they're taught you prove they great reasons to be disabled right number ones You can You can get free shit Well now you go in take a face people look at me and go Free copy I get very cage I get sex And no memory Lane says a secret. Nobody knows I'm dick So make you know disable Stylish magazine Vitami emerged Remarkable woman over a year. I Know They Marry my table saying garden they generate one for 80 hours Rosie Jones everyone These schools at the moment Allen and Tom have seven points Sean and Sara have 31 points And here is your tease the words are orgy huts the clue is it's only natural That's orgy huts it's only natural. See after the break Welcome back the answer Villa T's the words were orgy hunts. The clue was it's only natural is of course yogurts Now before we go on he doesn't work here anymore, but he keeps on turning up. Anyway, it's joe wilkinson You're right Joe what have you been up to mate well Well, cuz you were fired me because you're a prick I've Connor come back to being an inventor. So starting to invent it again myself you could this is actually one of my inventions It's actually a a baby propose for adults Only downside is you need a giant who's prepared to carry around for the optimum This one's mine exclaimed torch off weakling loves Tuffy's So got a few other adventures I could show you I'll be working all come on Fabio my half brother Fabio, sir Lovely idea this is telling why it's not being done before it's actually a mobile toilet seat dispenser I'll get Fabio talk around the terminus and if anyone needs a new toilet seat he just Dispenses won't go much remote works really simple. Love your idea Really nice little feature that don't wave you fucking idiot Got another no idea where Next it's like a normal chip and pin machine in it. But we've actually customize on made it into a lovely gravy boat But my best idea but bring it on bring it on but it's what they're over You know a better way of when the UK Strongest Man is struggling today So This is my best design. My best event should Sherlock eat. Chili. What is it chewing? What is it? You fucking idiot. It's Actually Fabio join a start-up Just remember there's an on switch There we go There we go What do you think of it? Okay what I mean, it certainly looks impressive. What does it actually do? It's a support like now Okay, I'm going Alan Tom your turn to choose the letters Also felt tips this be such a low baby I'll not listen to this shit we're George And you owe contentious Oh, that's enough we better know everybody's out enough about it, let's go home. Come on Couple of consonants please. Logic. Oh, I Think a couple more Val couple more vows, please. Hi Hey couple of consonants, please For shoulder pads, I can't see Getting about please love it. Okay and your time starts now Sara Hammond E55 Sean how many three three. It's quite hard too many vowels I think it would really badly chosen s as well, they were holding each other. That's because they don't take it seriously We do but we're so caught up on our masculine pursuits That sort of thing like Slough guttering don't they every Devon but I'll better gather there clear out the guts Get a pace every car out here clean out my gutters for me. I'll do it. Give me the ladder Daphne Okay, how many are three three I've got six six, okay, so what is your three sag Points what's the point Sean? You're three Doug Doug? So all that far if anyone's interested I've got to fire this work Joe, is it the same so at the same time one of You got Jukes do you ke s like you Duke Allen what have you got another made-up word? Major is guides Were you in the guides now I wasn't I was in the bratwurst No fan turn we had beavers remember B. Yeah. Yeah Where'd you got the two Six points to Ireland Losing Suzi, could they have done any better? Yeah Oh these Gordy's, you know, there's a reunion dinners at colleges Anyone want to see my picture an egg? Yeah. Yeah Good all right, just see the other thing on true. Yeah Okay, this goes to the moment Alan and Tom had 13 Shana Sarah had 31 points Okay, thank you guys watching it for e corner, once again Rose Lee Jones what have you got for us Well, I got some all great things about being disabled No, very warns you can die there And well now I can't be Bob a goin to work No, let post a fool I do Right down to the pool You can also die when their Disability in Shibata come true Hopefully they're not walked in And number two yet hard to deal with I Know not my French believe me Do Not break So I kept a very much And here is your final teaser the words are flat do the fluid stop watching it that splat goo stopped working it See you after the break Welcome back the answer to the tease the words were splat to goo the clue while stop whacking it it was of course gold post Okay time for our final letters game Shawn Sarah your turn to choose You ready Joe no, yes, sorry, so you're scaring me ready now cause de vaucanson Val Val Val custom Consonant vowel consonant sorry cousin cousin No No now what are you the constant not about in thank you Stick there G up there. Okay your time starts now Buddy freezing in here Nobody I've got sick sure six sir. Six six six six again Shawn watching I'm embarrassed anus Romans Romans Sure organs organs still gonna keep anus Sarah my ones and the same letters assures that we arranged I put groans Keeping this up though because we know what our fan base lights. Okay, six points to both teams Rosie Susie May 1 and you're very cheeky shake all girls them Okay, so Alan and Tom have 19 Sean and Sara have 37 Okay fingers on buzzers it's time for today's countdown conundrum your time starts now If the outcome is let's have a look insane The schools on have 29 children and Sarah had 37 Thanks to all my father saw wonderful studio audience a Joel Aviv working on that goodnight a dream team Sandino Paul and crew it's like totally jammy and its back the Great British Bake Off returns Tuesday and eight and on the same night Eleven celebs who are a bit scaredy about water are gonna take on the English Channel four stand up to cancer Grease up and jump in at 9:30 But next tonight latish, Wheaton Road 