From how they would even get there, to what
the steps would be to make a full colony, join me as I reveal to you what SpaceX would
do if they were to get to Mars! "Hello friends of Insane Curiosity, this video
was made in collaboration with "Vantage Films", who are a team of artists that realizes outstanding
content. Here is an excerpt of one of their latest
projects, you should take a look at the links in the description to find out more and be
amazed by their skills" SpaceX is one of many space organizations
out there right now trying to get to the people of Earth to Mars, and not just get us there,
but allow us to colonize the planet. They have a plan to do it, and it's quite
detailed, but there are some questions you no doubt have. Such as...how will we get there? That is the question, isn't it? After all, if traveling to Mars was easy...we
would've done it by now. When in fact, traveling to Mars is rather
hard on its best days. While Earth and Mars are technically "neighbors",
their distances apart is anywhere from 225-401 million kilometers away. It just depends on the day and part of the
year they are in their orbits around the sun (as they move at different speeds around the
star and have quite a distance between them). Because of this distance, if you convert the
Mars distance to miles, you'll see that to travel to the Sun is actually 2.5 times easier
than it would be to travel to Mars in terms of distances. Comparing Mars travel to the moon travel,
that's 986 times farther. That's quite a distance, and with our current
technology, that travel would be on the verge a year give or take depending on how big the
ship is, the passengers, weight, and more. If you're a movie buff, you'll be reminded
of the film The Martian, where an astronaut is left on the planet and his friends have
to travel from Earth to Mars to get him. It took a very long time. AND, their ship was specially built to make
that trip. At present, humanity has only built probes
and satellites and rovers that have gone to Mars. However, that is changing, and changing quickly. The SpaceX program is preparing their own
colonization of Mars, and to start this off, they're sending cargo ships to the red planet
via their Big Falcon Rocket. They're truly preparing this right now, and
aim to launch the first of these "cargo ships" in 2022. And once those touchdown, they'll send out
the first wave of colonists in 2024. If you're wondering what will be on these
"cargo ships", that's very easy. To help speed up the process of both landing
on Mars and setting up the first Martian base, SpaceX will use their BRF ships to go and
place food, energy supplies, mining and building equipment, and more on the planet. That way, once the astronauts get off the
ship and make sure that everything is ok, they can get to work setting everything up. Now, obviously, since it's still 2020 at present,
that mean things could change, and the technology could hit a breakthrough that allows them
to get to Mars even faster. Or set things up even quicker in terms of
the base. But the point we need to make here is that
these BFRs are the best chance we have of getting Mars at a good period of time with
people on them. And once that happens, the colonization can
begin. Once you get over the question of, "How do
we land on Mars?", the next question that needs to be asked is, "Where do we land on
Mars?" After all, landing at a key position, one
that can help sustain the life of the colonists, is vital. Think of it in this context, if you were human,
and you tried to colonize Earth, would you land in a desert? Or in the middle of the ocean with no land
for miles? No, you wouldn't. And while the red planet we call Mars may
look like a uniform piece of rock, it's not the case. There are good areas and bad areas to land. Scientists have deduced that the best place
for everyone to land is near one of the poles of the planet. If you're thinking about our own poles, and
how cold it is there, you might wonder why they would choose there. It's simple, while it is cold there, that's
what we need. Because near those poles is ice. Specifically, ice deposits that have been
untouched for many thousands of years, if not more. We need water to survive, especially on a
planet that doesn't have oceans like Mars. So, if these ice deposits can be broken into,
extracted, and converted into liquid water, a major hurdle of colonization can be overcome
in relatively no time flat. This would also help lighten the load of sorts
in regards to the food and liquid supplies that would come with the colonists. So location is important, but that's still
only one part of the equation. There's a lot of differences between Mars
and Earth. But without a doubt the biggest difference
is the atmosphere. Mainly...Mars doesn't have one that is as
thick as Earth's. This is a huge difference as the planet isn't
shielded from the suns radiation or just the regular radiation of space that our Earth
shields us from most times. Also, since the atmosphere can't keep things
out, that also means that things aren't trapped inside, including various gasses that we would
need to breathe freely on the planet. Due to this, when we colonize Mars, we would
need to have a base that would allow us to not just breathe, but also protect us from
all the effects of the harsh Martian landscape, and ensure that we can live without the need
for spacesuits. SpaceX is working on that as well. their plan is to have a singular massive base
to start the colonization with. The base itself will be 41 feet tall, 16 feet
wide, and have three different air locks that will allows the colonists to go from the inside
to the outside with minimal change in air pressure. It's stated that the initial team of colonists
would be about 6 people, which is fair for a first attempt at surviving on Mars. Obviously you can't just start off with a
large city. If it proves successful though, and there
are no serious issues with the base in terms of air pressure, longevity and more, more
bases could be sent. Ones that could connect to each other via
pressure tubes not unlike various sci-fi shows and movies have shown. Slowly but surely, a vast space colony would
be grown. One thing that might have slipped your mind
when you thought about how we would colonize Mars is the power needed to power everything. While it's true that the first colonists would
likely be outfitted with something to last them a lot of days, and maybe years, and supply
ships could bring in more things like batteries, you must also prepare for the worst. What if the main generator is struck by something
in a freak accident? What happens is something from space causes
the batteries to fail? What would be done then? The answer is in the plan. Space X intends to launch the colony with
a series of reactors and generators. Some of them will be meant to specifically
power the station itself. While others will be used to test making power
based on the elements that are naturally and readily available on Mars. Thorium for example is one element they believe
they can harness a great amount of power from. And with the mining equipment that would be
brought to Mars they could harvest the elements to power their equipment. Believe it or not, this is actually a key
element of truly colonizing an area. For it's easy to just go to a new place and
bring along everything you think you need to survive. But to truly "live" there you need to use
the natural elements and resources around you. That way you're not just "living" there, you're
living there. And, should multiple ways be found to use
Mars' natural resources to pour the colony, their ships, and more, it could lead to many
advances and guides in regards to what happens when they return to Mars. "Wait, return to Mars? What do you mean by that?" Confused? It may seem odd to try and colonize Mars and
then to leave it not long after landing down, right? But remember, colonization is a long term
goal. And the LAST thing you want to do is go to
a plan and grow too fast and then have something terrible happen to you in the process. If you think about things like the colonization
of the United States. That didn't start out with a massive movement
of people. It started out with a couple of ships worth
of people. And if you recall...the first colony didn't
work out so well...but others did. That sent word that things were going well
enough to bring more people over, the 13 colonies happened, and the rest is history. For Mars, it's kind of the same thing. Just with a lot more distance. The first base is meant to ensure that colonization
on the most basic levels is possible. To test out getting water, get the generators
working, prove the living spaces work, and so on and so forth. The plan is for them to live on Mars for about
9 months. Then, after that, go back into their ship
and head for home. Which would be the first round trip from Mars
in history. A true milestone for mankind, and a trip that
could be the first of many should things go well in the large scale. After they return to Earth, a bunch of research
and tests will begin. After all, the now official colonists from
Mars are the only real proof and evidence of life on Mars, so they'll need to be tested
to see how they react to the return to Earth, how healthy they are, see if anything got
on them sickness wise, etc. All of this data will be vital to the SECOND
trip to Mars. Where Elon Musk is planning to go even bigger
this go around. And by that time, the governments of the Earth
will no doubt be helping out more as well. Or at least, we hope that this is the case,
again, this is many years into the future and we obviously can't predict all that is
happening then. What's going on in the world right now is
proof of that. Anyway, the goal of the second mission will
be to help not just expand the colony, but help expand the potential of the colony. Including giving them more materials and equipment
to work with as they try and truly establish an everlasting colony on Mars. One of the ways that Elon Musk and company
intend to do that is via "space cranes". No, really. He wants to make cranes that'll be able to
go up into space, grab equipment from the shuttles that orbit it, and then bring it
down to the research base so that the colonists can use it. This would allow more speedy travel, and less
work for the colonists themselves. Not to mention, it would allow for the transport
of heavier materials without the fear of losing them during flight. Plus, the cranes will be reusable for some
time, ensuring their worth. Once the groundwork for the colony begins,
SpaceX and other space agencies will work together to send supplies, equipment and more
to truly help build our first space colony. It won't look like much at first, but with
enough time, effort and energy, we'll get there. And with each month we're on Mars, we'll be
growing our reach in special ways. For example, NASA is developing a vehicle
that'll allow astronauts to traverse the terrain of Mars to go and exploring for various things. Including potential new landing spots or highly
rich mineral areas. This will be important for the future of the
colony. And let's not forget about food. While there will be rations and supplies on
the early missions, the goal will be to somehow grow food on Mars naturally. It's believed that a greenhouse will be a
part of an early mission to help scientists test how to grow the plants naturally on Mars
in some capacity. The quicker that happens, the quicker supply
runs of food won't be necessary. Now, the next question you might be asking
is, "When will regular people be allowed to go to Mars to live there?" That is honestly a question that no one, not
even Elon Musk, can honestly answer. Why is that? Because to have everything in a place where
people can willingly and freely go to Mars to start a new life...a LOT of things have
to go right in the grand sense. As well as the small ones. Think about it in regards to everything we've
told you so far. First, the cargo ships that launch in 2022
have to last and make it to Mars safely. Then, the first colonist group has to go to
Mars safely, start setting up their own base, come back home in 9 months and get tested
and everything. So by that point it'll likely be late 2025-early
2026, and we're still nowhere close to a full-blown colony. Add to that, it's unclear how long a true
colony will take to construct, power, and make sure we have enough supplies for it to
survive on its own. This could take YEARS, if not longer, and
of course, billions of dollars. In short, it's impossible to know when you
can settle for some property on Mars...as we don't even know when that'll be an option. Either way though, the fact that SpaceX is
getting us closer to Mars every day, and that they could be moments away from another major
breakthrough that could lead us to Mars quicker is exciting. And it makes us dream of a future where humanity
is roaming the stars and colonizing all the worlds that we are able to. Thanks for watching everyone! What do you think of SpaceX's plan to go and
colonize Mars? Do you think that it's a good plan? What do you think is going to be necessary
to make a successful Mars colony? Let me know in the comments below, be sure
to subscribe, and Like or Dislike the video! 