What is a room? Is it a place composed of walls? A floor? A ceiling? A ceiling fan? One could say that they share similar attributes
with the box. They are containers, that can hold things
in place...and time. But unlike the box they are not only meant
for storage...no. Rooms possess a unique transient nature...because
apart from accumulating items they can also harness some of the most chaotic elements
in existence...people. Coming and going as they please. Rooms are the constants that can hold these
tumultuous variables. They not only retain the tangible but also
the abstract. Emotions, thoughts and beliefs ready to live,
die and be replaced by newer moments yet to reside in this space. In todays video we will be analysing Tommy
Wiseau's world renowned film The Room that puts into question the very nature of what
we believe a room to be. Heavy spoilers will follow. -I did not hit her, it's not true, it's bullshit. I did not hit her. I did not. -Oh hi Mark! Once you watch The Room for the first time,
you will be immediately hit by the following thought: Wha.... Words failing to be worthy instruments of
expression... you will be left to a primal gasp. As I read in an article that I wrote, the
technique is called "cinematic confusion" and Tommy Wiseau is not only the architect
of this method but also the only auteur that has managed to successfully implement it. It is a means to willfully go against the
rules of film to evoke a feeling of discomfort in the audience. He chooses to deconstruct what you expect
to see in a movie. Some lines of dialogue are over dubbed and
don't sync with the emotion or expressions the characters are portraying. Displaying conflicting energies from the actors: - Here you go... -That's me. -How much is it? -It will 18$
-Here you go. Keep the change...hi doggy. -You are my favorite customer
-Thanks a lot bye! Or dialogue that intrudes in the overall tone
of a scene: -I used to know a girl, she had a dozen guys. One of them found out about it - beat her
up so bad she ended up at a hospital on Guerrero Street. -Ha ha ha. What a story Mark! Nobody wants to help me. And I'm dying. -You're not dying mom. -I got the results of the test back. I definitely have breast cancer. We can observe scenes where the camera is
left unfocused and recreated external locations in-studio out of spite to reality. Wiseau also decides to apply an un-narrative
structure to the film, a term I believe I just spoke into existence. He juxtaposes mismatched scenes together and
withholds character introductions. Making us guess the connective tissue between
the various events of the movie, character relations and also, their motivations. Who are Johnny's friends; Mike and Michelle? Why do they leisurely show up at their home? What made Lisa suddenly fall out of love with
Johnny? What prompted the tuxedo wedding photo day? But the most important question we should
ask ourselves is: why does Wiseau want to create discomfort? Because then you will remember it. That feeling will stick. - I just want to be clear on this. You deliberately shot some scenes out of focus? - Oh yeah, absolutely. - And why would you do that? - Because, you see, let's assume we did everything
perfect way. You will be asking this question? No, no. It is the first step that leads you to what
he is trying to present but first he must tear down the old canvas inside the audience,
so he can start a new one. It feels almost Lynchian...where the words,
image aesthetics and narrative structure are secondary to what the artist is trying to
evoke " I don't know why people expect art to make
sense. They accept the fact that life doesn't make
sense" David Lynch
We are supposed to question what we are watching: Is this a film? Could this be a dream? Are we seconds away from a porno? The external confuses the internal. Then in turn we are ready to become the raw
material in the hands of the master. Ready for the truth to be revealed So, we can start questioning: what is a room? -You are tearing me apart Lisa! -Why are you so hysterical! -Do you understand life? Do you? If you believe this movie is a simplistic,
juvenile love triangle gone wrong than I will ask you to reconsider those fighting words...you
are only partially right but for the wrong reasons... that I will soon correct. We would be wrong to assume that this film
is about Johnny's perspective. You see, all the characters present in the
story are but symbols inside the perspective of one of the secondary characters. As we mentioned before we are not watching
a normal narrative. This sub-narrative (that I think has a better
ring to it than what I mentioned before) is operating at a subconscious level. This is the representation of a conflict inside
a malleable dream-like state. This becomes evident by how characters just
materialize in places they weren't supposed to be. -What's going on here somebody help! Whenever characters try to dig deeper into
information of what someone has just said, they get a deflective answer as to not draw
too much attention to details and just stick to the surface. -What kind of movie are we going to see? -Well we'll see...Denny don't plan too much;
it may not come out right. -I cannot tell you it's confidential. -Aww come on why not? -No, I can't anyway, how is your sex life. As we start peeling back the layers, we notice
that this isn't an adult perspective. It's the perspective of a what a child thinks
an adult would say our do. This becomes evident in the characters unusual
reactions, [chicken sounds]
greetings -Oh hi Mark! and their attraction to play time. The description of what Jonny does for a living
sounds like what a child believes an adult would say about work. -How was work today? -Oh pretty good. We got a new client at the bank, we make a
lot of money. The food mentioned is what a child thinks
an adult would eat. The female conversations are of someone who
has rarely spoken to an adult woman (other than the nagging of a mother, represented
with Lisa's mom) and that believes female interactions end in random pillow fights. The rooms decor is odd, containing picture
frames of spoons. The depiction of romance gives way to juvenile
fantasies. Which leads us to the natural conclusion that
we are inside the mind of a child: Denny. The characters are used as a way for him to
make sense of the world. Johnny is the adult he aspires to be. He has a fiance, friends and a good job...that's
his ideal Wiseau clues us in by making Johnny the paternal
"surrogate" but in reality, he is Denny's surrogate so he can manoeuvre the adult world. Chris R. is the world trying to rob him of
his childhood innocence. Mark represents friendship but also rivalry Peter the psychologist is the helpful conscious
that is not present in his life...which is why he is rarely in the movie. Mike and Michelle...are not important to my
explanation. But the one that is an important symbol in
the movie is Lisa...she represents romance but also how chaotic it can be. Shifting her intentions from one scene to
another. -Still love you! -I don't love him anymore. Denny's is attracted to this romance and wants
to attain it. But he ends up realising that the adult world
can be duplicitous, and betrayal will find him. Johnny is overlooked for his promotion and
Mark sleeps with his fiance Lisa. It's at this moment that Denny's surrogate,
Johnny (his ideal) can't exist in this reality, that the world is a cruel place and he goes
on a tantrum and decides to destroy the room. But it's not world that shouldn't exist, it's
Denny's childhood ideals. The symbol then destroys itself because it
will only keep being betrayed by the world. So, what is a room? Tommy Wiseau helps us understand this part: "At the time, I thought about a special place,
a private place, a place where you can be safe. And it's not a room, but it's the room. I thought and I think that a lot of people
would relate to it." It's the safe place where our ideals can exist
and be nurtured...protected from the outside world...in us. Thank you for watching our video. Well, I hope you enjoyed our (not to be taken
seriously), dramatic overanalysis of The Room. We wanted to do it for April fools' day but
decided upload it at a different date. Let us know if you would like us to keep making
these overanalysis of bad movies once in a while. It's just something fun we can offer in these
trying times. We invite you to like share and subscribe
if you haven't done so yet. Make sure to check your notifications so you
don't miss any upcoming videos. The music was made by Eduardo Gonzalez, if
you liked his work, check his information in the description. Until next time! 