Waking up at 6am requires some discipline
and a few hacks. The problem with morning routines that actually
end up with you getting out of the house to only return eight hours later is that there’s
a whole lot less freedom in deciding exactly when you should wrap up all of your pleasant
morning activities before you’re rushing out of the house. So to start the day with a perfect success
rate, I make sure that my phone is far from hand’s reach and that the tune I wake up
to is pleasant enough to convince me to go get out of bed. 100% guaranteed my alarm will not be snoozed
and I will be on my feet one minute past 6. Hack number two is creating that type of structured
automatic routine that immediately signals my brain that sleep is over. For all of you, people who shower in the morning,
that probably means getting in the tub; for people who shower in the evening, including
yours truly, washing my face right after I wake up is key. If you’re struggling with a short amount
of time to create a morning routine that you look forward to, I urge you to think of the
various parts of the morning and think about what you can switch around. The two major changes in my morning routine
since I started working away from home were to switch my workout routine to the late afternoon
and showering right before bed. Those two things represented a huge chunk
of my time and moving them to a later hour rebalanced the time I spent being productive
and m After washing my face, I start the day by
preparing breakfast or helping prepare breakfast. I love breakfast and I make sure that I take
my time preparing and eating it while I read news, watch something on tv or have a chat. It’s probably the only meal I take during
the entire day that is done so at a relaxed pace, so I always enjoy that ritual thouroughly. Fifteen to ten minutes before seven a.m. I start going around the house doing all the
chores that need to be done. This means making the bed, watering the plants,
cleaning the dishes, cleaning the bathroom and anything else that’s on my list. I do two house cleaning routines per day,
one after breakfast, and one right before bed. Cleaning and organizing my space makes me
feel like I draw a clear line between routine work and more entertaining or creative activities;
it makes me feel focused and energized for the rest of the day, so it’s an integral
part of my morning routine as well. The fun part of my morning routine starts
after I finish my chores. This usually ends up between 7h00 and 7h15
and it’s the time when I usually pick up a novel or my language learning textbooks
and start reading. This block of time justifies my whole morning
routine. This is the reason why I wake up at 6 and
not at 7 and it’s the reason why I recalibrated my entire schedule to be able to dedicate
around one hour of focused time to things I love doing. In busier weeks I spend this time planning
for YouTube videos, writing and recording voiceovers, editing thumbnails and outlining
video scripts (Clips in the mirror, curling hair, applying
make up. Make up tools on the vanity; make up bag. Shot with flowers. Add “bell sound” to the background, when
I start getting ready. Show a few clips of sunbeamsjess’s vlogs) I have an app in my phone that rings a bell
whenever it’s 8 o’clock and that is when I know it’s time to start getting ready. For me getting ready means around 15 minutes
for hair and another 5 to 10 minutes for makeup. This is when I have my daily YouTube intake. The rest of the videos I don’t have time
to watch, I’ll just add to my “watch later” playlist. At 8h30 I get up, get my bag, pick up my keys
and get out of the house. My commute is around 20 minutes so around
9 am I’m already sitting by my desk at work, after listening to a podcast or some music
during those 20 minutes. I hope you enjoyed today’s video and I will
see you next week. Bye guys! 