- [Saf] All three variants of the Samsung Galaxy S10 are
revealed, rendered side by side. We've got the very first, hands on image of the
S10 plus in the world. And the official invites of the S10 Unpacked event have been sent out. What's up guys, Saf
here on SuperSaf TV and the closer we're getting
to the S10 announcement, the more and more leaks that we're having. And there's a lot to cover,
so let's get straight to it. So the newest and hottest leak comes from veteran leaker Evan Blass, which shows all three Samsung
Galaxy S10 devices in cases, rendered side by side. So let's break all three of
these devices down one by one. The first is the Samsung Galaxy S10 E. Now the "E" definitely does not stand for Edge and that is because this
device has a flat display. Now this would be the first
time in a couple of years that Samsung is using a flat
display for a Galaxy S device, since the S8's we've had,
just the curve options. I feel somebody who
prefers a flat display, and I know there's a lot of you out there, then this might be a good option for you. Now this version is considered to be, the more affordable
option out of the three, and it has two rear facing cameras, with a puncher for the
front facing camera, and is rumored to have around about 5.8 inch near bezel less display. Then we have the S10, which is
rumored to have around about, 6.1 inch display and the S10 plus, which is rumored to have around
about a 6.4 inch display. Now with the S10 and S10 plus, we do see triple rear facing
cameras for both devices. Now this is interesting, because you may remember
last year we had the S9 and S9 plus. The S9 with a single camera, and the S9 plus actually
separating itself a litte bit more with dual
rear facing cameras. But it looks like this year, Samsung is going to be giving us the same rear facing camera set-up
for the S10 and S10 plus, However, things are a
little bit different for the front facing cameras and that is because we have a single
punch-out on the S10 and then we have a dual
punch-out on the S10 plus. This is rumored to be a
regular angle of view, selfie camera as well as an ultra wide angle of view
for your group selfies. Now another thing that I've
noticed from this leak is, that on the back of the devices, there is no cut out for a finger print scanner like
we've traditionally had. And this would suggest that the
rumors of the S10s having an in-display ultrasonic fingerprint
scanner, are correct and this would be the case for
all three of these devices. And moving on, the next leak is what I believe is the first actual, hands on image of the
S10 plus in the world. Now this image originates
from South Korea and it looks like maybe a Samsung
employee with a test device. And in it we see this new
near bezel less design, with the dual front facing camera cut out. Now one thing you have to bear in mind, is that this device does
appear to be in a case, so the bezels may seem to be slightly larger than
they actually will be and it gives us a good idea of what the S10 plus will look like in
the flesh and I for one, am very excited. What about you guys? It also shows Samsung's one UI in action, with all of the notification icons, stacked on the left hand side
of the punch-out cameras. Moving on, we have some
interesting leaked information from serial leaker, Ice Universe. Who firstly says, that the S10 plus is going to have a 4000mAH battery, but is going to be just
7.8 millimeters thin. That's actually thinner
than the S8 and S9 plus, which is going to be pretty impressive. And Ice Universe also said that the top of the line S10 plus is going to have 12 Gigabytes of RAM, with
one Terabyte of storage. Let's just take a moment
to, let that sink in. 12 Gigabytes of RAM,
one Terabyte of storage. That is absolutely insane. That's more than a lot of
people have on their computer's. This version is going
to have a ceramic back, it's going to be scratch resistant, more durable when it comes to drops, but it's going to make
the weight slightly more. It's a compromise that I'm sure a lot of people will be okay to make, however, I'm sure the price tag of this device is going to be very high too. And finally you guys
may have already seen, I posted last week that
the official invites of the S10 Unpacked event have gone out and that is going to be held
on the 20th of February. That's quite interesting because it's actually a few days before MWC. Samsung wanting an exclusive event, not clashing with anything else and that's quite understandable, because this is going to be the 10th anniversary for the Galaxy S-series. And we do have a couple
of hints on this invite, the first is that near
bezel less display and the 10 is angled side ways with the zero matching the dual front
facing camera cut out that we going to see on the S10 plus. Now although this event
is slightly before MWC, there are some rumors suggesting that Samsung is going to be announcing their special S10 device at MWC. And this is the version that's
likely to have 5G support and it's going to be coming
out later in the year. 5G of cause is going to be
all the buzz around MWC. Now of cause, as soon as
the announcements are made, we going to be having lots of hands on coverage here on
the channel, SuperSaf style. If you want to see all of that first, then make sure you have
subscribed and hit that bell icon, so you don't miss a thing. YouTube, kind of weird right
now with sending notifications, so make sure you do hit that bell icon. What do guys think of
these recent leaks of the Samsung Galaxy S10s? Are you as excited as I am? Definitely drop me a comment
below and let me know. I have covered some previous
leaks in a previous video and I'll be linking the end of cards and your first purchase of
a website or domain. That's it from me guys. I hope you enjoyed this
video and found it useful. If you did, then do hit that
thumbs up button for me and if you want to see any final
leaks and rumors round up, before the event, then also let me know
in the comments below. Thanks for watching, this
is Saf on SuperSaf TV, I'll see you next time. (upbeat music) 