I'm cold, hungry, and sleepy In order to get dark circles for the shoot,
I didn't drink even water since I woke up! You just woke up though It's been about 5 hours since I woke up I got ready for 2 hours, 
the ride took 1 hour I got up and showered! You didn't shower, did you? (I did shower!! ㅠㅠ the producer (PD) feels sad) The story behind today's MV shoot is for some reason, I lost all memories,
all the precious memories so I'm like a blank slate I'm here to get my memory downloaded (Which memory do you 
want to gain back the most?) Watch the music video to find out ('IU' from the near future,
who lost all memories) (Goes on a journey
to search for something precious…) (After roaming about, she arrives 
at a certain scene from her memory) This year's best style Like how? From our face to outfit, Do I look the prettiest 
right now this year? I guess you must like this style Don't film the bottom part This pants is too long Wait, no, not too long, 
it's just this long Moon Ji-hwan, you are pretty good
as a photographer (Selfies are still the best!!) Enjoying the world on a rooftop Rooftop I don't know what you 
went through as a student Follow me to the rooftop! I bet you've been on rooftops
pretty often when you were young Me? - Some people did want to see me up here
- They wanted to see you here? School violence I don't have any money School violence When I was in elementary school,
middle schoolers stole money from me a lot I'd be riding a bike with my friends People in school uniforms came to me, shook the bike wheels to scare me,
and told me to give them money I was in elementary school, so I didn't have
any money, but they stole my bike and went, "Hey, how much money do you have?"
Do you know what I mean? They lifted the bike as if they were lifting
a motorbike to threaten me and stole my money School violence (On a trip to find precious memory…) (Unexpectedly, she recalled her experience
of having her money stolen) I'm not scared of anything! There's nothing to be scared about! It shakes so much!! Over there? It's fine~ I'm not scared
by things that shake me! Which things shake IU? Things that shake me? Chocolate I had chocolate 
for the first time in a while It was just so good!! Because of social distancing,
I gained a lot of weight I tried to have less carbs! I had mostly protein, minimal protein,
wait no, I mean protein and vegetables I had mostly vegetables for every meal and didn't eat chocolate 
for about a week I'm so proud of myself! (Pinch, pinch, pinch) (Pat, pat, pat) Can you see this? I lost so much weight
I have no fat on my cheeks! No fat on my cheeks Do my legs look really long? - What's the secret?
- Secret for having long legs? You just Gucci heels? (A picture like a pictorial)
It feels like a pictorial (A honeybee buzzes around the flowers)
There's a bee A bee? The bee keeps following me Do you know why? (Thanks, dude) It's because you ate chocolate What are you doing? Rebelling! They told me I look ugly if I do this I knew it was because of chocolates (She only did Homebody 51.6,
feeling happy to be outside) (IU runs around to blow out
any frustration she had before) (Got tired quickly…) (Recharging with some sugar…) What do you crave the most right now? Black bean noodles Yesterday was Black Day,
did any of you eat black bean noodles? (….Silence) Only singles eat that Do you all have boyfriends? Boyfriends and girlfriends? Ji-hwan, do you have a girlfriend? (IU is washing since
she hung out outdoors) (Wink!) Should I now eat some pizza? Is this pizza good? I bet you ate all the good ones We ordered only 1 kind Don't lie!! I saw what you ordered,
they all looked different (Okay! How good is it?) (Dissatisfied)
The crust isn't stuffed with cheese (After a good meal,
the video shooting resumes!) (Don't run ㅠㅠ) (Shaking, shaking, shaking)
(IU makes advances) (Let go of me! Let go of me!) Does it like it if you touch that part? No (I'm not CGI!) (The moment when you need
good sleep after a long and hard day) (The long-waited moment!
This is the truth worth of a dancer/singer) (A fairy can sleep while standing too? 
I'm sleepy ㅠ, I want to go home) (I'm going home~ Bye!) (They caught her, calm) My knee keeps making a crunching noise Your knees are a mess My knees are weak to begin with That must be why 
you have a song called Knees (PD says, she tells this to staff members all the time)
Didn't I say this before? My knees hurt so much I danced and ran around today I'm wearing high heels Hello? Tell us about your song The song I'll be releasing is a song
about sad yearning that stems from returning to the same place, not being able to move on,
and keep getting lost in thoughts The reason the song is called Eight
from the beginning is I wanted to express my state
of mind as a 28 year-old As I did for Twenty-three or Palette, 
I sometimes try to reflect my age in my songs so I wanted to do the same this time SUGA from BTS and I have the same age and that's why we worked 
on the song together The whole process 
itself felt comfortable It felt comfortable and casual
as I worked on it Of all the songs I worked on recently,
the process for this song was the most casual The melody is also very easy, 
and for the lyrics, I didn't really have to put too much thought 
into it as I was writing it (Are all people born in 1993 good musicians??)
So I just wrote what I felt like writing We have a singing machine set up at my home My dad sings everyday 
and sends me a video of his singing He said he's dissatisfied 
with the mic he has As you know, I have 
a lot of custom mics I have many that I don't use, 
so he told me to give him one So yesterday, microphones
are very expensive as you know So I asked him if he wants
to use it for practicing at home and he said yes with so much certainty so I said okay and gave it to him,
and right away he sent me this (Fell in love with the custom mic, he said he sang all day)
It does sound different though I was talking to my dad on the phone,
and my dad's voice didn't sound too good So I asked him are you sick?, and
he said no it's because of the singing machine I'm not kidding So I said, "Because of the singing machine?
how much did you sing?" and he said, "I sing about 2 to 3 hours every day",
and he really does sing 2 to 3 hours everyday, I'm not kidding Where do you keep going off to? To the 4 dimensional world (What memory is she searching so hard for?) (IU keeps running 
and doesn't even get tired) (Tired, sleepy) Good night~ The comment!! I need to get the comments soon Share some with us (How dare you tell me 
to share my chocolates!!) (Should I share some? Or no?) Tell me what you want Snickers!! You can have this (There!) Tell me if anyone else wants anything! (Take a look!) (This is the mood of the song 'Eight') (Sleepy ㅠ, I want to leave ㅠ) Can I go home now? Can I go?? Bodly making my exit out the window! I think today's shoot was not 
as tiring as I expected it to be It was tiring though It was tiring (Kidding, kidding)
It wasn't that tiring There's no dance for this song,
when things go great, it doesn't feel tiring As you review it and feel 
pleased with it, you don't feel tired (IU says, it turned out pretty,
so she felt satisfied) (Today's highlight right 
before the end of the shoot!) Okay, cut Thank you for the hard work (Eight! It's already over!! 'Eight''s MV shoot 
went smoothly from start to finish) (Until the very last step, 
a never ending hand greeting~~~) 