that I personally am super excited to use. Good mornin', we are at Palm Springs and look at that mountain behind us, woo hoo! Now at the top of that mountain, it's over 8,000 feet in elevation, so that would be a great opportunity for me to test out this
Mavic Mini in high elevation. (laughing) Are you cold? - I'm a little chilly. I didn't bring a sweater,
do you have an extra one? - Yeah, I think I've got one here. Here you go. - I have to wear this? - I mean, it's you either
wear that or you're cold. Dude, these mountains are so steep and the top of them, there's snow. You think we're gonna be in snow? - [Passenger] I hope so. - You know how mountains are usually like do, do, do, do, do. Here in Palm Springs, it's just
like flat, flat, flat, gah! It just like goes straight up. My neck hurts tryin' to look up at it. - I can just picture a
dinosaur coming and like, (growling) out of those mountains. - Like those dinosaurs? - Like these, exactly. But less cheerful. - Yeah, we came out here so we could do high elevation flying. This specific tram rides like, no you can't bring a drone up so they took it away. We came all the way out
here to Palm Springs for basically nothing. (laughing) Well, we might as well enjoy it real quick and then we'll find a
spot where we can fly it. Remember how we were down
there and we were like, you think we'll see some snow? Here's you're answer, yeah. - Just a little bit. - This would've looked so
good on the Mavic Mini, man. I'm so bummed that we weren't
allowed to bring it up here. I checked like the airspace. That was, that was really close man. I felt it in my hair, it went whoo! All right, you get one free throw. Let's see what you got. Oh, oh man (laughing), you got me good! You got me real good. - Oh snap I got the lens - (laughter) Oh God I think you've broke my camera. - Oops - (laughter) - You've been getting a lot of compliments off that sweater though - Yeah dude, at first I was like "Aww man, this is probably
gonna be a bad idea" - But, - [Woman] Love that jumper - Oh, yeah do you? - [Woman] Love it! - (Laughter) - See, everybody's loving it. - I like your channel. - Well man, I'm so bummed that we couldn't bring that drone up here. We need to find another
spot with a lot of mountains so we can get to high elevation where we can get some epic, drone shots. Any thoughts? - Huh! I got it! Hawaii! - Oh yeah, all right, I'm
going to go to Hawaii. Woo hoo! Should be fun. - Wait, I'm coming too, right? (Upbeat music) - Welcome to Hawaii! Check this out. Okay, looks really gloomy right now but that's because we're
actually in a cloud. Everything was really nice and sunny like, ten minutes ago, but
we entered this cloud. But this road here keeps
going all the way up to over 10 thousand feet in elevation. So I imagine, that that will get us over this cloud, and we'll be about to kinda, see blue skies and get an oversee an epic view. How dope would that be? Anyways, let's keep going up. Shall we? I think we're just about
to get out of these clouds here. Check this out. All right, we broke through the clouds. Let's take a look. Haha! Look at that! It's actually really windy up here, I wonder if it's okay to fly the drone. How epic was that summit? One thing I failed to realize was that this whole
area is a national park. So, no drone flying allowed. As soon as I started seeing
those signs for no drones, I was like "oh man, should've
done more homework." But likely we talked to a ranger, turns out the edge of this national park is on the other side of here. So, there's a trail
ahead that we can hit up and we can legally fly. So, we're trying to
catch that before sunset. I'm out of breath, this elevation makes me so tired. You get out of breath so fast. But, we gotta catch this before sunset, or else this drive up
would've been for nothing. Whew! Oh check it out. Leaving the national park. So now on the other side of this, we can legally fly. Look at this though! Holy crap! This is great. Oh look! You can actually
see the ocean down there. So way down there is sea level, and this is 10,000 feet up. - I feel like a bird. - (laughing) Now if you haven't seen my
original Mavic Mini review, you're probably wondering, like, why am I trying to find
a high elevation place, to fly this thing. The higher up in elevation you go, the thinner the air gets, the harder it is for a drone to fly. So the Mavic Mini has a
max service ceiling of 3,000 meters, which is 9,842 feet. In case you're curious,
the bigger brother, the Mavic 2 Pro, this is the max service ceiling for that. So, it does fly stronger. And DJI also told me that
you shouldn't fly above 1,500 meters in elevation if
you're using the prop guard. So if you go up in a high elevation spot, take off your prop guard. Now the reason why I
wanted to do this test, is when I got the original prototype, like 2 months back, I
tested it out at about, 7,300 or 7,600 feet, I think, and it kept crashing on me
as the battery got lower. Now DJI and I actually came out and met with me in high elevation spots. So I could demo my issue to them and they could try to figure
out exactly what my issue was and then they told me that
for the production unit, so if you were to buy one, you would get the production unit, that one will have two
things improved on it. One is the firmware and also, the propellers are more efficient. So, if you purchase one, this should be the
version you are getting, and hopefully I'll have no
issues flying it around up here, at over 10,000 feet. It's really windy up here
and it's flying strong, so this is honestly really impressive. Just those propellers alone, it's such a big difference. It's interesting, right? Just the slightest,
slightest change in angle or whatever aerodynamics
stuff, it flies so much better. Yeah, this is actually great news. The original prototype unit that I tested, would've crashed by now. For sure. But this version? The one that you would
get if you bought one? Is flying so good. Even at 10,000 plus feet in elevation. And also in my original video, I did a battery life test, but now that these are even more efficient with the propellers, it will probably last even longer. So yeah, all those complaints I had, about the Mavic Mini not being able to fly in high altitudes? I was wrong, it flies great up here now. Also, while we we're doing this test, DJI did hint that there is a 24P option coming in a future firmware update. Not sure exactly when yet, but they are working on it, so that's gonna be awesome. Those are my two main complaints. High altitude flying and also no 24P and now the fixed both of those things, so, I don't know, for $399, this might be one of the
coolest cameras you can get. - You're starting to sound
like you were sponsored. - I mean they did give me like, $50,000 to make this video. (both laughing) - I was just kidding. But yeah, the improvements that they made, between the prototype
version and this one, they seem minor, but it's definitely
something that I can feel and notice and I love it. - So, if you have to choose
between taking your Mavic Pro, and this one, which one would you choose? - I would still probably
bring the Mavic 2 Pro, just because that sensor is so good, and I mean spots like this, where we want as much
dynamic range as possible, cause you guys saw the footage, the mountain was just black
and the sky was bright. I couldn't expose for both. Mavic 2 Pro would've probably
gotten a better shot of that. I mean with the Mavic Mini, you're stuck with automatic, and most the time it looks good, but sometimes you just
want that manual control, or some of the log settings for recording, and a higher resolution of 4k. So, there's benefits of
the Mavic 2 Pro still, but this Mavic Mini? It's so tiny and a bang of the buck. It's probably one of the best
$400 you could possibly spend. Oh! And this is a sponsored video so, drop a comment down below and this Mavic Mini will go out to someone in the notification squad. - But it's not sponsored by DJI - No, it's sponsored
by Fiverr on this one. But seriously though, it is wind as heck up here. So not only can it fly high altitude, but even when it's windy. Probably not recommended, but it worked. So, that's good news. - I can't feel my fingers. (both laughing) Let's go. - Check this out! We're at a place called Jaw's Beach. Which is currently a famous
surf spot with massive waves. - 60 or 70 feet, I think are
like the highest recorded. - Right now it's only 10 feet, but still, it's impressive. And to get out here you have to take this, kinda sketchy, off road
trail with lots of mud. Luckily, we got a jeep rental, so we're able to get out here. We haven't seen a single other
person for the last hour, so this is the last
place to wanna get stuck. Now, I came here to get
more Mavic Mini shots, but it is so windy here, I don't know if that's a great idea. I mean, it's so windy I don't
think I'd fly any drone here. It's windy. Is this the right way? - I'm having my doubts right now. - It's a little bit of an
adventure getting here. But Whoa! This looks like it came
off a jet ski or something, cause the jet ski's are needed to tow surfers out into those waves. Now this is one of those things that definitely don't translate on video. When you're looking at the screen, you can't see how massive these waves are. But just take my word for it. They're massive. And this is considered small. Wow! So, now that I've had
a chance to fly this, for a couple months now, and now especially with
the new propellers, I mean, this thing flies amazing. For that price of $399, it's really hard to beat. I mean this would be one the first things I would personally get, especially if you're just starting out, but even if you're pretty experienced, I mean, having something
this small and lightweight, literally you could throw
this in your camera bag and not even notice that it's in there. So because of that, I've literally had this on me throughout the entire Hawaii trip, even if I didn't plan on using it, because, I mean, it's just so small, and it's not an extra
inconvenience to carry it around, and the battery life on
this is like awesome. I've been carrying around 3 batteries, and I've never run out of batteries, which is awesome, cause you know, couple years ago you had a drone, like you have to have so many batteries to keep it in the air for 10 minutes. I would still consider
upgrading to the Mavic Air, it's a little more expensive, it's a little bit bigger, not by that much tho. And then you get 4k, full functionality of the camera, and it does fly a little bit stronger, but I think the biggest thing is the image transmission, that video signal that you
can get to your controller because on the Mavic Air, it's so stable. On the Mavic Mini, it's
actually really good, especially if you're in
kind of a quite place, like this, where there's
not much interference, but I will sometimes see the image kinda break up for a second, or give me a choppy image. And then on the Mavic 2 Pro, I mean that thing, like
I can't think of the last time I saw an issue
with the image transmission. Man, these waves! These waves are nuts. I know for sure this is on of those things that don't translate on video, but if you guys were here? And you could hear the waves? Like, they're just crazy! And the locals consider this to be calm. They're just like, "Oh yeah, there's not that many waves." Man what would that even sound like, a 60 foot wave? It's just "Brauhhh" Whenever I imagine a Hawaiian hike, This is what I think of, right here. I need a machete. Gah! (makes slicing noise) Anyways, time to wrap this up. I would read some comments right now, but I got no reception right here, so, can't read anything. We'll just wrap this up by getting a few final drone shots of
Keri driving this jeep. Let's go. (upbeat scenic music) (electric music) 