Countdown John Richardson, Sara Pascoe Welcome to additive ten cats does countdown. You're probably thinking to yourself. Is this a new one or is this a repeat? Well, it's a new one unless of course you're watching a repeat in which case? Yeah. It's a repeat Okay, let's meet tonight's players first up. It's team captain Sherlock Sherlock Is 55 which means if he was a woman countdown would have replaced him twice by now Don't know because you don't have to What's what's the woman's one there and there isn't last you're so lonely that that was it what's that fun? It's that it's that national event. It's that one. Come on women Come on women, I don't think it's a slogan with Insurance to make your work inson So Wilkinson he puts the wilkinson into the phrase is that Joe Wilkinson taking a shit in the middle of the road Well beat me Up against them this evening. It's team captain John Richardson John is a vegan, but what exactly does that mean? Well, it means he's boring to talk to Just in veganism I'm 90% bacon 90% What's the one thing that keeps you from being? Absolutely foie gras Oh God with a nice milky coffee and some cheese Oh, there are others on the cows and the puffs and they're huge swollen, no just have the cheese bit I'd really drunk tonight. It's sarahpascoe So is a vegan feminist basically she hates sausages Sara usually went to Australia. How did you find it? I'm so lucky I went there for work And then they flew me a business class, and I assume you've been in business class before so have you been in business class? Like the top deck of the bus It's magical they don't do a safety announce But in business class somebody just hands you a glass of champagne and says your money will save you Turbulence in business class you've got a little bed with a blanket and the turbulence just rocks you to sleep Couple of hours the most beautiful woman you've ever seen or smelled she comes over. All right. She strokes your hair She says are you hungry? She feeds you from her breasts When did you last feel proud, how do you say I'd say on the train today? I got a lovely compliment on the train up here. I walked under the sign and it said first-class rear standard from Shawn is there anyone you'd like to apologize to? Yeah the life drawing class My thrush was gonna And I had to change posture a number of times And I was only really comfortable with the one that was facing the draft But most of all, I'd like to apologize to my kids sorry - Daniel I'm moonflower Pritt stick And Ian Joe has anything annoyed you lately. Yeah a few things If they don't want you to drink the liquid in a lava lamp, why do they make it look so tasty and Well basically hard to get a passbook recently as well and I to get possible photos I thought would look really nice in it. But with these new rules and regulations They would let me use it. So Do you have a wiki? Yeah, yeah When I only come once in a lifetime Oh John have you got a mascot. Well now everyone's had enough of James Dyson There's a gap in the market for a British entrepreneur in the cleaning department. So I've invented a new revolutionary new product in the fight against filth and I present to you the Swiss Army brew There we go, it comes with its own buzzer Conundrums I tell you know, so you've obviously got your basic broom for your basic grooming better for Aerial so you can put a bit of magic on But when you finished your broom in obviously you might have spilt a bit There's your your duster there for dusting as well, but if you're kinky have a bit of a tickle Clean together. That's what I'm saying. Don't make it a solo activity this is you your grabber for picking up smaller items pinch your boob with it if you're kinky, I Mean basically if you're kinky Anything can go anywhere This is a picture of Roger Federer just to get it by the Swiss Legally That's a that's a tableau there with you What day's your recycling goes out and you finish then they send everyone one of these You know to stick it somewhere on the fridge not in a drawer where we're never gonna find it again Finally just in case you might get burgled while you're doing your cleaning big knife Tara Mask, oh, yeah. What have you got? Well add a big think about because on this show. I've been very bad Yes and reflecting back at school. I wasn't bad at maths. No sort of thing What's the difference between when I was at school and here now? And the main difference is that I used to sit behind a boy that I really liked called Wesley Galvin Yeah, it's such a nice head shape and such beautiful ear lobes. I think it really kind of powered me uninspired me. So He's here And I'm gonna just sit behind him and look at the board We're today hi was do Just want to sit down there. He's lovely Was he in your year at school? Yeah, he's had a lot of work done. I Think this is gonna really help me and then soon if you just come out for the maths rounds, where's and then? Maybe we could go for a drink afterwards. There's a little bar just right next door Couple of wines Randall applause were wisely Sure, you know what I've realized right this day and age everyone's on the Internet You go into your local news agents and there is just you are where you go to I won't say the full name W Smith's, right Or somewhere like that. They've got hundreds of magazines. That's you. See yourself there really specialized I think there's money to be made out there So I have invested money in a little boy little publishing company and I've got a roster of magazines that I lovely I'm producing this This is and it's very incredibly lucrative Realize just how much money is in magazines. It's quite a long build-up, isn't it? You'd better be funny well, that's probably why I'm taking so long because it Copies probably one of the magazines Okay, so first one is the wall magazine and that's just about bricklaying and That comes with a free brick All of these We can build you know This next magazine is very popular because a lot of these out there and there wasn't a publication for them. It's called the lapsed Catholic Johnny Vegas Roberto Baggio Tom Cruise Lady Gaga and Mostly it's a directory for drugs booze and sex. Mr Popular publication now this magazine. It's been a massive hit right, right, but it's busty foster-mother Michelle you can have that on the lower shelf, there's no nudity or anything in it. It's just lovely mum You'd like to foster you Know trends for magazines those celebrity magazines where they point out flaws in celebrities, you know They sort of point out cellulite and stuff like that celebrity. So I thought let's do that. But with ordinary women Real women shame Sure, you've gotta mess up yeah I I'd done about you but I'm fed up it was the same old pinatas Fed up with it. So I've come up with a range of pinatas I've brought a few with me. This first one is It's my Rachel Riley Having a few pens and she's thrown up And rather than doing a boring sweeps Inside the pinata I decided to put something inside that the kids can whack out something more relevant. So in this one It's a load of marijuana joint The next one is Susie Ted As you see she's holding her bicycle chain, which is a pub fight weapon of choice Inside is it as a dictionary in good in Susie Dent fascist hiding enough with us Once you Jimmy The head comes off like The real thing Inside his simply some teeth whitening gel for horses Shawn his Shawn save the traditional middle finger Hey Inside showing this a little toys and trumpets and so on things that bring you joy, but they're all broken and Finally is is it John pinata? Okay over in dictionary core Nate's and Simmons Sandman for a unique look I like to call it fire alarm halfway through a haircut. I do that That helps what do you like about the UK sir are Tesco's any of the self-service checkout places are really good because what I like to do is Just before you're about to pay I'll lean down into the scanner and sometimes just give it a little kiss just go Say something like something fun like beach people. So I'll just lean down at the scanner. I go beach people Hoping that someone next to me like will go. Hey while you're doing that and I'll go. Oh you get 25% off Even with that information Which so of course, it's Suzy dens Susie Dent has written 14 books. Will she ever run out of ideas? Yes Susie have you and Rachel ever gone on holiday together? Yeah, we went to Dublin and We had a really good weekend. Yeah, cut long story short end of the night. We're looking for a late night chemist as you do So we went in couldn't find what we wanted on the shouts they went up to the counter and what we're looking for What I was looking for was a hot-water bottle because it was really really cold and there was no hot water working on the shelves So I said to do you happen to have a hot water bottle to the to the pharmacist? He said yeah, I did. He leant down behind the counter. I got its massive long hot water bottle that I guess it's like a bolster that you kind of put it next to you and Rachel just looked at me and she said yeah Susie likes a long one And that was it really that kind of some deference but we had a we had a hot night I'm in charge. No. Mrs. Rocha wanna Now despite what you might think Rachel's job isn't just putting vowels and consonants on the board. She also has to take them down again How's your Russian coming along um Well, I've been once and I tested it out and they understood me mostly but I did get in a taxi and asked the driver To take me on a cruise on the fish Because Rika Reba very close. I have been very careful not to mistake blowjob and minutes Minutes and blowjobs mean yet Sounds like your Russians going great. Okay, the prize two teams will be competing for talent. Is this the countdown baseball set? Okay, let's curl down everyone time for the first game Shawn Joe you get the pick of the letters Greg a mule please Jeanette Okay, I'm for the first time today here's the countdown clock Morto countdown Ready site Bullshit short-hair money no six Joe how many seven? Seven you got seven now. I got four Sarah how many of you got six six? Okay, John seven, I think I Mean it's not a Pantone Joe was your fault tens Tens tens more than 110 Sure, you're six France, oh Okay, Sarah you're six points faints with an e-rate with Annie Mac in boxing and John you're seven other points forties Got my ten. Yeah Okay, seven points to John They better get a softener, right? Oh, is that as good as it gets? Sarah you also pick the numbers does that mean I can get my Wesley? Yeah. Yeah, you can get us let's Nate Can you come back? Can I ask was Wesley a bully because it might hinder my He's 40 but like not in a bad way Could you just point out for the viewers at home as well that his stool is higher than my chair? Just out of interest, he's grown a proper beard as well as me yes a little sacks of proper bed Okay, so we're picking the number sorry, yes. We'll go norm, please no, the one big fifty or a hundred would be dynamite not seventy-five on I'm out if it's a 75240 Okay, five seventeen is your target and your time starts now So the target was 5:17 sarah did you get it no Distractive young man there is a smell of Link's. Yeah That's right. What did you get how close oh, I just wrote all the numbers down. I Tell you what, he's done it for me though turns out man you went to school with behind me really rocks me off You did okay. You got it Joe did you get it think I've got it. Yeah Did you get 517 517 you Sure. Did you get it? No 516 Okay, Joe. How did you get it? 4 plus 2 is 6 times 75 is 525 Is it okay about John 9 minus 2 is 7 yeah x 75 525 10 over 5. These are two yeah x 4 hold on 10 over 5. What do you mean I'll take Say that To divide things so that you can either add them And you could do x I didn't realize we were on dividing. Yeah, I didn't think we don't I only even did that because I didn't want to play my Joker Which is what you know, the Joker you can have any number Want to swap any number and yeah, yeah So if you deployed your Joker you could have turned the two into the semi tone and you'd have got it Yeah, what what and the other things? What's worth mentioning nines a wild in countdown Stitch other don't want us to win. It doesn't suit their agenda Convenient, okay 10 points to John And here is your tea set of words our page nips, the clue is get them out that's cage nips get them out See you after the break Welcome back the answered of the tease the words were cage nips. The clue was get them out it was of course Escaping. So Joe Nocera are in the lead Shawn what are you what are you reading? Oh, it's just another one of these magazines. I've got out at the moment We know there's a lot of consumer magazines out there. Oh, yeah. Yeah, it's hard to know sometimes Which is the right consumer magazine for you, so I've created what which magazine Just got growing Empire this is tin magazine I would have said it had been a quiet year for Henman, but he still wants him of the year Jamie Malick you see there? Well, it's made of a cheaper we've got Justin Timberlake And then the final magazine now, there's money in porn we all know that And I thought to myself I want to provide a service which isn't provided for so I created this magazine It's called red hot sex. Basically. It's people with the flu. I Mean look at the state of him Having sex what what could be more fun than that and you managed to get Novak Djokovic. Yeah He's a dirty bastard How's that to be playing in team Sao Paulo but this game is just for John and Joe Hi, John, your turn to choose Joe your turn to lose I'll have a consonant place On a vowel please a on a consonant, please And a vowel, please 8 and a consonant, please and A vowel, please you and a consonant, please beep and a consonant police deep Dene I love do under fire And a final vowel, please ok and your time starts now Susy Rachel you hungry Okay Okay John how many letters seven? Hi Joe. I mean that's John was Joe seven unloved What did you get unravel? Mm-hmm, how did I get it? I was told You told you your brain told you I saw you yeah after you wrote it there We need points joke don't blow some points to both teams Dictionary corner, could they have done any better? Unloader and overland. Yeah, so the end of that Shawn and Joe have 7 John and Sarah have 24 Shawn your turn to pick the numbers. Ok, I would like one big one of five linens They are seven two seven nine three and seventy five Okay, so your target is five five five easy to remember if you like fives your time start now Keep at it Did you get it Shawn no Cuz you got okay Sarah did you get it no Yeah, we're back in this. Yeah. Okay. Sure. Talk me through. How did you get it? How did I get it? Seven times seventy five Seven times seventy five is five. Two five three times. Seven is three times The other seven is twenty-one. Yeah Five four six Okay, time to go across now traditionally corner Sam what have you got for us I have I've some impressions and I've worked pretty hard on. So oh I said hard on, okay Let's go let's go with this first one. All right. Let's see I've really tried This is an impression of a man who confused going on a trip to Legoland with a leg of lamb Who doesn't know the English word for pasta colander or strainer, you know the thing that's got all the holes in it The English word. It's got many holes. You put the pastor and the pastor door there and the water come away, you know The spaghetti stay the water good boy By his own sexuality once trying to order a castle in that You might ask is one of those fuckin buttery flaky fuckers Fucking French, I'm not gonna say the word for it just make sure it's hates fucking melt in the mouth or she Gonna hot wet shit Shock it at my head What flavors of you guys go I'll look he could have fully tie a pumpkin or sheep He's that very same man violently chin Compensating fashion than just in case anyone thought he may have any shred of femininity whatsoever Apple is you just attack the Apple violently like it's an enemy. You just go at it walk in the man He's talking women actually Joe have 17 John and Sarah have 24 and Here is your teaser the words are show pork The clue is make sure you've got would that show pork? Make sure you've got word see after the break Welcome back the answer to the tease the words were show pork. The clue was make sure you've got word of us. Of course workshop for another letters round Rachel how many of these have you done twenty thousand? I think I've had my ten year anniversary now. So ten years of shows. Well, let's celebrate Which are wily much genius let's have a look at some of your best bits from the last 10 years Could it be gun? Leave it with me? What? Okay, can I just remind everyone that is Rachel's only job so For 25 s is a hundred By five is five hundred minus 75 is four to five more twenty five six one hundred. Sorry Oh, oh, oh so roses. I thought you were the smart one Why do a five and a four coming out be more exciting for me Ten years old and an immersion This football we go on Susie out of interest how many years have you been on the show 27 27 years? Shirley Jo your turn to choose the letters. Can I have a Constant, please. Yes, you can. Jo s no one, please be a vowel I Consonant please t NH L shit a Constant, please See consulate, please Come to the please You Annie okay and your time starts now? Sara how many letters six six John Hammond letters Seven are Joe having letters three Sure, I mean letters six six, okay Oh Joe, what is your three letter word sit? Join your six tribes tribes Sarah so thing is I've got six. I trust I've got eight. I don't trust No for the age that can bit of excitement. Okay, John. What was your seventh? Well, you should have got this after your magazines boss, dear Sarah you're eight. You're risky a my risky a I've out crusting like old people is it in there Susie? I kept saying Susy could they have done any better? Yep, Rick Rick toises. Yes rectus Quinces, what is Rick districtís grimace? Look at Jimmy the kind of kind of fixed grid Okay, so eight points to Sarah Okay Once again traditionally corner, Sam Simmons. What have you got for us? It's a karaoke song about a song you'd know about fingers. That makes sense. Let's go There for feeling the things you want getting serviced in a restaurant or High-fiving this guy right here. Yeah Oh scratching your itch here Therefore hailing a taxi cab or peeking an elbow or Touching a random man here on the head Randomly touching men with my fingers Help you in a sausage roll But mine can't play guitar Why can't you play their cat They can pull up our chicken wings point up pictures of all Beijing You can use in Turpan a cat or for peach in your Place a pancake on rabbit Inside You can use them to wave goodbye Stick your fucking finger I'm sick of pointing out all the things you can do with your Fingers Well, it's lovely and you can also hear if you listen closely to David Bowie turning in these cracks He's sort of the moment Sean and Joe have 17 John and Sarah have 32 And here is your final tease of the words are lube kits the clue is the bigger the better That's Luke bitch the bigger the better see after the break Welcome back the answer to the teeth of the words were lube kits The clue was the bigger the better it was of course bulkiest Okay telephone in a lettuce game John Sarah your turn to choose the letters, please Thank you very much gonna have a consonant. Please make Sarah deep. Can I have a vowel? And have an eight gonna have two consonants and Anna L a vowel I P another consonant Hey another consonant place the last one Your 30 seconds starts now How many I got 8 what now another right yeah, you're killing it Hi John how many 8 Joe seems risky 5 a risky fire Shawn I've got 8 ok, Joe. What's your 5? Oh this one clips Yes, okay sure well Sheree capitals Capital Sarah. What's your rate captain's? Okay, John. I also got captain's 8 boys to both team Sam Suzy, could they have done any better No, it was best that we could do as a medical term a plastic as well for eighth meaning and it's describing organs that don't Function properly. Okay. So Shirley Jo have 25 Joe, Nocera have 49 buzzers this time for today's countdown conundrum and your time starts now Can I go first, yeah, I've just seen the word dragon in there. Yeah kick yourself because the answers actually pet dragon I'm gonna restart some points for dragon. No, we're reaching the clock Danger top What you put on if you're going on a risky sort of adventure it's what was that godparent Sarah say Ruin it for Let's see if Sarah's right, how are you supposed to see? Boys Joe Nocera has 50 They pedal down on baseball shake To all of these walking though, that's it for us. Good night 