It's Saturday morning, so we're hanging out I'm excited for this Wednesday's cartoon, but for right now. We got this guy here Whooooo! This if you don't know is Brian Hull I'm an impressionist on YouTube you probably seen my videos of the guy Who's saying let it go with all the Disney characters and winne the pooh you almost got it almost But I'm surprised I don't have any honey here (Oh My God) my agent said that'll be honey. Where is it? Alright I'm getting you honey. I got honey you guys Oh wow the because project it goes to a good cause, that's for you Whoo! Honey! The episode's over, I gave you the honey like what else do I do? So the challenge we are doing today is the whose voice is it anyway challenge animation edition (yeah!) in this bowl here we have a bunch of different characters from movies and TV shows all animated we got our friend off-camera who's gonna play these in the first one of us to guess the voice Wins a point all right just so you guys know I have no idea. What's on these papers Uh.. Brian doesn't know it's on these papers all right play the clip Miss Frizzle Lisa Simpson noooooooooooooooo! You got it! Ohhhhh! That's one point for Brian Hull you're gonna win this alright you ready for the next one? I'm ready for the next night one. We're ready play clip number two... Oh Oh! Donald Duck! Donald oh Definitely Donald Donald Donald Duck! I've got one. That's all I need I stopped for a second because it didn't sound like Just let me enjoy this moment. Can you do Donald Duck? I love this let's do number three alright, a laser gun! Sounds like Disney Channel Fisher Is it like rocket power Yoga balls, that's gotta be Kermit I know this voice. I know this voice Is it Arthur is it uhhhhh no I know this one is it loud house? Is it cory in the house Is it miss Frizzle? Is it a kid it's Definitel-Oh! It's Fin from Adventure Time! All right, let's do number four and number four so it's uh two to one two one, two one I still have a chance I'm doing way better than I thought I would Oh oh oh oh oh oh! It's Carmen, its Carmen. Oh! I love that show It's Carmen, its Carmen. Oh, I love that show Oh Dora, Dora the Explorer I'm kind of embarrassed how quickly I got that.. ha ha ha ha Yeah uh, we got time for one more. Alright. Let's do another one let's do another one, last one. This is either gonna Give you the the crushing victory that I imagined or we'll have to go to sudden death, sudden death Here comes, okay... Now that's Ms. Frizzle! Ended up being the last one Talk about fair justice, give me that honey! Can't believe this I'm really impressed, well you won the challenge Brian, yaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay woooooooooooooooooooh Can't believe this I'm really impressed well you won the challenge Bryan yeah As much candy from here as you want  you alright before you go I have a bunch of questions just answer them as fast as you can rapid-fire don't think about it favorite videogame uh... (what?) favorite movie Lion KIng, ooh I like that one When you're little what did you want to be when you grew up? A paleontologist I know it's weird, I was a weird kid My iPhone or Android? iPhone juggling or magic? juggling Special talent that you have that no one knows about I'm double-jointed I can bend my fingers all the way to the back of my hand d-do it well do it okay... Ok I'm gonna warn everybody now. It's kind of gross and some people find it weird, but like oh And yeah, can you do that with all of them? I've never even showed my fans this really yeah, they've never seen that Alex Clark exclusive I've never really showed my fans this really yeah, they've never seen that Alex Clinic exclusive Yeah, I feel like you could make an ASMR video just of that sound Slash Alex today's first awesome animation is for spider-man into the spider virus I checked it out at all we get a brand new spider-man. I'm excited to have a Spidey That's not Peter Parker think it's gonna be good and just the fact alone that they want full-on And they're so creative so different so unique definitely check them out I don't know if you're watching the Nickelodeon shorts, but they put them all up on their Facebook page And they're so creative so 4.in so unique definitely check them out They got tons on there also congrats the sugar she voices the baby sister She just hit 900k released a video with a QA can't wait to watch that myself and the last awesome animation That's all the awesome stuff. I got for ya this week. If you got something definitely Let me know down in the comments and for right now. Let's get back to Brian most famous person you've ever met? Um probably Neil Patrick Harris. Now I've heard. He's like the nicest Let me know down in the comments and for right now. Let's get back to Brian most famous person you've ever met He was super nice since last question as brief as you can summarize how we met. We met at playlist live Famous person out there it was your impression of that the same We were just kind of.. somebody told you about me wasn't it like somebody had been said like oh you do cartoons Last year over in Orlando mmm-hmm He does like all these cartoon impressions and does voices so you came up to me and said hey somebody said I need to talk You need to go talk to this guy He does like all these cartoon impressions and those voices so you came up to me and said hey somebody said I need to talk So that's how we met, everyone's like industry collab and then he did the Winne the Pooh voice and I freaked out like Oh really So uh that was all we have for you guys today. Thanks for hanging out. Thank you Brian, for coming over I'm it's Alex Clark, and we'll see you somewhere, okay byeeee -Subscribe- Oh, well, um my name is um Brian Hull Well I do um like Oh My God! 