One of the most revolutionary things we learned
in the 20th century was that time is not absolute – the rate at which time passes for you
(or anything else in the universe) is different depending on how fast you're moving and how
much you're accelerating. In particular: time passes slower the more
you're moving. This fact has been confirmed experimentally
countless times – fast-moving muons take longer to decay, light emitted from a moving
source has a lower frequency , and so on. But relativity of time can at first glance
seem somewhat contradictory. Suppose we're flying past each other; from
my perspective it seems like you're moving (and so time should go more slowly for you),
and from your perspective it seems like I'm moving (and so time should go more slowly
for me). It seems crazy that we can both think time
is going slower for the other person – someone's time must actually be slower, right? Well, no - take a look at my giraffe. It's 3 meters tall. And your giraffe is 3 meters tall, according
to you. But you're rotated relative to me, so you
only measure my giraffe to be 2 meters high. And I'm rotated relative to you, so I only
measure your giraffe to be 2 meters high. So we each think the other is measuring distances
in space as longer, but it's not a contradiction. It's just that we've rotated height and width
relative to each other. And similarly, when you change your speed,
you rotate the direction of time – I have another video explaining why. But it looks like this: if every passing second
I move to the left, then my clock will tick like this. And if every passing second you move to the
right, then your clock will tike like this. So when three seconds have passed on my clock,
I'll measure only two seconds having passed for you. And yet when three seconds have passed on
your clock, you'll measure only two seconds having passed for me. So we each think the other is measuring distances
in time as shorter, but it's not a contradiction, it's just how time behaves when it's rotated –
it affects not just the passage of time, but also our notions of "the same time" . However, there's still an unanswered question:
what if I stay on earth and you go off into space and then come back? Will one of us have actually aged more, or
will we both have aged the same amount despite constantly thinking the other was aging less? This conundrum is called the Twins Paradox,
and I'll explain the solution to it in my next video. But in the meanwhile, can you use rotating
time to figure out why the twins paradox isn't a paradox? 