[IT'z TOURBOOK]
(EP.06 Minneapolis_03 and HOUSTON) (Today's finally the day of their
showcase in Minneapolis!) (ITZY's dressing room is busy
with rehearsal preparations) I'm excited about today (All ready) (>>>On their way to the rehearsal!) ALL IN US! Hello, we're ITZY! Thank you in advance! (The official dance rehearsal begins) (They finished the dance rehearsal
without any problems) (Carefully doing soundcheck, as always)
Can you turn down the volume of my voice? Thank you We're feeling fine We're okay (Ryujin takes the camera all of a sudden) I think Ryujin took an interest
in cameras recently (Passionate) (Director Ryujin's angle) [Ryujin] I go like this
and pull back like so(?) (Ryujin wanted to shoot a musical film) (Intense) (No one can get in the way
of her passion for film making) Wait, her face looks so dark! She seemed really confident so I thought she was doing a great job But her face looks pitch black (Director Ryujin is still very passionate) (Angle within the frame) (Angle outside the frame) (Rehearsing for the talk session
after break time!) This has been ITZY! Thank you so much for your hard work!
Thank you! (ITZY is getting ready for the stage) It's snowing a lot outside It's snowing hard out there You guys must be freezing We'll get you warmed up (Youngest Yuna is ready) Let's go, let's go To meet MIDZY (Meanwhile, MIDZY is waiting for ITZY) (Is MIDZY here?) It's MIDZY (Ready to go to MIDZY? OKAY) MIDZY got up to see us Don't get up! You'll get hurt (Standing close together) (Ryujin is behind them!) (MIDZY's cheering is as loud as ever) The cheer is amazing My heart's beating like crazy You're awesome, Minneapolis (ITZY gives each other a tight hug) (Let's do well today, ITZY! Let's do this!) (Finally heading to the stage
to meet MIDZY in Minneapolis!) ALL IN US! Hi, we are ITZY! (MIDZY in Minneapolis are welcoming
them with a loud cheer) (An event they've prepared for MIDZY) (ICY (Intro part change ver.)) (Their performance continued after
the ICY part change version!) (Followed by the game of
'CHALLENGE MIX SONG'!) (*A game where they have to guess
three K-pop songs playing at the same time) (The member who gets the most points
gets a very special prize!) MUSIC START! (Try guessing with ITZY!)
(Concentrating) (This is hard...) (Chaeryeong's attempt!) (Chaeryeong's answer)
(1. IDOL 2. twit 3. Dance The Night Away) (Sorry, wrong answer) (Getting hints from MIDZY) (Concentrating) (Ryujin's gotten a hint +1) (Concentrating) (Yeji and Lia figured it out) (Ryujin's the only one in the dark) (Running away) (Returns after figuring it out) (Ryujin's answer)
(1. IDOL 2. twit 3. Levanter) (That is correct) (Ryujin won first place in today's
'CHALLENGE MIX SONG' game!) (As promised, she got
a Minneapolis t-shirt!) (Happy) (★Looks perfect for Ryujin★) (Since Yuna came in last,
she needs to act cute for ten seconds) I'll stay with you (You can do this, Yuna!) (Ten seconds of Yuna acting cute, START!) (Mission success) (The final performance they've
prepared especially for MIDZY) (The showcase comes to an end) (ITZY thanks MIDZY again) Thank you for coming! Love you guys MIDZY, I LOVE YOU! The showcase is over! The fans were so passionate today They were passionate like
the red outfits we're wearing It felt like we were about to melt
from all the heat What surprised me was how they danced to 'IT'z SUMMER' with us (Moved by the passionate Minneapolis MIDZY)
They were all standing There were seats, but it
felt like a standing concert Thank you so much
Thank you Thank you so much, MIDZY (Great job, ITZY!) We forgot to say
"ITZY, MIDZY, let's fly" on stage (OMG) Let's do it right now! Then shall we send our love to the camera? (Here you go, MIDZY!)
ITZY, MIDZY, let's fly! (Making precious memories with
MIDZY in Minneapolis) (Their Minneapolis showcase was a success!) (Minneapolis, at the airport
before leaving for Houston) We're going to catch a flight to Houston And the air was cold like this
when we first landed in Minneapolis (Director Ryujin is hard at work
before takeoff) I look like a tomato(???) We're going to Houston! Houston! We're leaving Minneapolis Man... I wanted to stay a bit longer We're on a plane flying
from Minneapolis to Houston See you in Houston! Bye! (Houston, DAY 1) (The camera is installed at the door) (Why did ITZY gather together
so early in the morning?) (★ITZY's 'I Hope You're on Time'★) (*There's a punishment waiting
for the last one to arrive!) (Ryujin arrived first!) What's this? (Can't pass up the opportunity
to play around with a prop) I wonder when they'll get here Shall I guess who'll arrive next? (Ryujin's guess for second place is Yeji) (And for third place, she guessed
Yuna, her roommate) (Yeji arrived) (Yuna arrived)
Oh, hello There's a selfie camera here (Yeji is second place and Yuna is third) (Ryujin's predictions continued) Chaeryeong and Lia will come now But Chaeryeong will come in first If I'm right about everyone,
I'm gonna get chills (She was right) (Chaeryeong is the fourth to arrive)
Hello, this is ITZY (And with Lia, the last to arrive,
they're all here!) (Freaky...)
I'm gonna get chills (ITZY's USA TOUR) (Penalty for the last place)
(Mysterious envelopes handed out) Is this random? Are they all different? (Find  using only public
transportation with the mission money) (*Only Yeji can look at the map!) (Everyone gets ten dollars each) I'm good with directions But I'm just bad at looking up places Are you ready, everyone? (Anxious)
I don't think my heart is ready Why don't you look up where we're going? Do you know the name of the place? (She triggered the passionate Yeji) Let's all take a selfie together
before we begin Yeji's tour ITZY Why isn't anyone saying ITZY? Three, two, one! ITZY (Will they be able to make it
to their destination...?) (Worry? THAT'S A NONO)
Don't worry Guys, we're expected to arrive at 11:23 No one's listening to me! (We're listening)
Okay, okay Everyone, let's cross here (We can't hear you) Please Guys, please stay close to me I'm getting all teary-eyed already (So relaxed) (Yeji's ordeal has begun)
This is hard Guys, let's go Let's go, you guys Guys, let's go! (What will happen to Yeji's tour?)
Will I be okay for the remaining tour? (Find out on TOURBOOK EP.07!)
Let's do this! 