(# 1st battle of the childish duo) You copied my hair What are you talking about?
This is how I wear my hair [Ryujin] What? I did that hairstyle first What? This is a new hairstyle I did it first
and that looks exactly the same [Yeji] I didn't copy your hair! Yes, you did If you had it done by the same stylist
in the same way, how is it not copying? I didn't copy yours! The stylist told me she's never
done this hair before What then? How is that not a copy of my hair? It's a new hairstyle! How is it new when I did it first? It's new! The hairstylist told me she tried this
on me for the first time! She called it a new hairstyle Wanna go ask her? (Childish feud) Humph! (Useful tip) This way, I can have
the dressing room all to myself Because the other one just leaves - Ryujin's big picture
- [Lia] Yeji, I thought you were leaving I know (Cheeky Ryujin is having fun teasing Yeji) Why are you all dissing me? (Gesture of reconciliation) (No) (No) (I hate you) (Humph) (Breaking news)
(The childish duo have reconciled) You're no different (Shaking) - [Lia] What did I do?
- You're the same You've been... you know? You get a yellow card! [Lia] Tell us how Ryujin hurt your feelings Is now the time to talk about feelings? No, there are no hard feelings [Lia] So no hard feelings then? [Lia] Then can I take the time to talk
about how Yeji hurt MY feelings? (Teasing Yeji is so entertaining~) [Ryujin] Did you know that Yeji... (Giggling) (Goes all out when teasing someone) (Abruptly changing her attitude)
What's there to say? We all know she's doing
her best as a leader I understand everything And make sure this stays in the video
Me looking out for a fellow member Ryujin being a good friend How could I hold a grudge against her? I know where she's coming from
and we all understand each other - Right?
- [Lia] Right! A friend looking out for a friend (# ITZY's short sketch)
(Titled 'Ryujin is twenty years old' ★) I know your boss, yeah? I ate with him, yeah? I went to a sauna with him, yeah? I've done all that Is this from ? [Yeji] I think so? [Lia] Are you old enough to watch that? Of course It's R-rated and I'm old enough now (Wow) (Don't tease me that I'm young)
I'm 20 years old now (# Mango shaved ice rules)
Do you know how tasty mango shaved ice is? In my opinion, the best of shaved ice (Chaeryeong's No.1 pick)
is mango shaved ice [Yuna] Basic flavor is the best - Because--
- [Yuna] Injeolmi shaved ice (Didn't ask for your opinion)
Is too dry~ No, no Mango shaved ice tastes refreshing
and sweet at the same time I think it's perfect... Just before we get home, I order the mango shaved ice
in the car in advance And when we arrive, the shaved ice would be at the door
waiting for me (Chaeryeong's perfect plan)
I try to think about that We also ate ice cream together at home We almost finished this huge
bucket of ice cream all by ourselves At first, we were like
"I don't think we can finish that" This is the largest size, by the way We ate it all... (# Extreme TMI from Yeji)
It's TMI time I think I'm really good at sharing TMI (Real TMI time for MIDZY)
Since MIDZY wants to know about us My TMI is that I got my moles removed I removed five But two went away and three came back The thing is, the three I wanted to
get rid of came back clearly And the ones I didn't care much
about went away The doctor who did the procedure
was quite old After it was over, he said
"There's still some left" So I went "Just really get them out" He was like "Doesn't it hurt?" "It does... but I can manage..." "Okay! Then hang on a bit longer" So I get them completely taken out
but they came back (Sulking...) (Moles will come back!)
They must be lucky moles I think they're bound to return (# Lia, the dancing machine)
Wow, Yeji... I... My neck looks... I tried to dance as best as I could
but look at this Wow! No, I mean
you tilt your head really well Hey, look [Yeji] Wow I bent this part too much [Yeji] That's possible I think you're more flexible overall I just tilt my head
with my body in place (While they were monitoring together...) Oh? You must be kind of sweaty Yeah, a lot, actually! Even on my back Oh~~~ (No fancy equipment, but great service)
This is a scalp care shop Hair and scalp care [Yuna] Can't you do it for me as well? [Yeji] I'll do it for you both! Yay, me too! (Outrageous prices)
It's 10,000 won per minute [Lia] Wow, this feels so cool! [Yuna] 10,000 won per minute? (Shocked) [Yeji] It's 10,000 won per minute (Firm) In jjimjilbangs, you put coins
in those hair drying machines And they get turned off when time's up [Yuna] But I'm kind of cold now (A client who is hard to please) [Yeji] Yuna's being a little fussy today She's so fussy~ Nice Oh! Nice! You're like a photographer (Very nice)
Nice, nice! Photographer! Photographer Shin! That's not even a B-roll
That's more like an F (Hired the wrong photographer)
Ugh... We should've hired someone else Hey, have you been taking
funny photos of me all this time? They're not funny photos I just took your photos,
and they look like this [Yuna] You gave me chocolates [Lia] Where are my shoes? (Fearless Youngest)
Where are... Where are my shoes? Someone ate my shoes I also want chocolate There's only one (chocolate) left! (Quick Lia) Hey, you still had some in your mouth! And you made me see that Come on, it's just between us (# 2nd battle of the childish duo)
Ryujin, get up Get up, get up Why? I don't want to Come on, get up I wanna show you something Just get up already! (Another childish feud)
No! I wanted to say something nice about you
You know what? Forget it - [Yuna] Yeah, just forget it
- Fine Just say it (Outraged leader)
Your body looks nice in that outfit! (Cheeky)
Oh, really~? (Cheeky Ryujin needs a slap) Oh, you mean it~? What a nice thing to say~ (# ITZY's Halloween costume?)
I've decided! For this Halloween, I'm gonna be the Grinch
if we do a fan sign event Let's do a proper Halloween this year [Lia] Yay! I'm gonna be the Grinch I'll be that girl from
 I'll wear hanbok
with a sunflower in my hair (The Youngest wants to be Groot!) If you want some ice cream,
you say "I'm Groot!" [Yeji] I guess I'll be Light Fury this year [Ryujin] Is it light or night? - Light!
- [Ryujin] Light, huh? Then I guess we'll have to
paint your face white All white With a bit of eye make up (Spot-on) I can't wait for Halloween (# A special gift, ITSONG ♥) (Welcome to ITZY Karaoke ★) We've never been to karaoke together! This is mine (Swag)
Wow, I look so cool [Ryujin] Look at the disco ball, everyone ITZY's singing contest~~~ Wow~~~~~ (★ Let's sing our stress away ★) Boooy boooy boooy~~~ (WANNABE) (Hi!!!) ♪ Stop with the nagging
I'll take care of it ♪ ♪ No matter what I become
I'll take care of it ♪ ♪ I do what I wanna ♪ ♪ Whether I live a normal life or not
just leave it to me ♪ ♪ I'll live my own life
because this life is mine ♪ ♪ I'm so bad bad
I just wanna be selfish ♪ ♪ I might tell you
to be better yourself ♪ ♪ Whatever people say, I'm me
I just wanna be me ♪ ♪ I wanna be me, me, me ♪ ♪ There's no need to be something ♪ ♪ I'm the best when I'm myself ♪ ♪ I wanna be me, me, me ♪ ♪ Sunguridangdang Sungdangdang
Sunguridangdang Sungdangdang ♪ ♪ I wanna be me
One and only me ♪ ♪ If you feel me,
turn this beat up ♪ ♪ I wanna be me, me, me ♪ ♪ Just wanna be me, be me
I wanna be me, me, me ♪ (The song went off) (Huge accident) (No way)
I'm sorry! (Frozen)
It was you! (That makes no sense)
It wasn't me...! (Yuna turned it off...)
I pressed the wrong button (Song change) (NOBODY LIKE YOU) ♪ You know I do as I like, whatever
I have my own way ♪ ♪ And should fit on me,
such a bad girl ♪ ♪ Eyes are oh so high
and also high-nosed ♪ ♪ It’s not easy at all
to catch my fancy YEAH ♪ ♪ But these days I keep thinking, yo ♪ ♪ Babe I pay attention to you, yo ♪ ♪ Why do I keep an eye on you ♪ ♪ OH MY GOD what is this feeling ♪ ♪ It’s wicked but you’re so funny funny ♪ ♪ Your voice is so dreamy dreamy ♪ ♪ I’m hooked on you, really really ♪ ♪ Oh, babe, I think I like you ♪ ♪ First time having this feeling feeling ♪ ♪ Did I flutter? Pit-a-pat ♪  I felt the destiny, yes you ♪ ♪ Babe ain’t nobody like you ♪ ♪ No matter where I look, it’s only you ♪ ♪ The one who’s gonna melt my cold heart ♪ ♪ Babe like you yeah, like you yeah ♪ ♪ No matter where I go, there’s only you ♪ ♪ The one to love me sweet ♪ ♪ Babe like you yeah, like you yeah ♪ ♪ Ain’t nobody like you
I like you ♪ ♪ No, nobody like you yeah
Nobody like you yeah ♪ ♪ Ain’t nobody like you ♪ ♪ Into my hard frozen heart ♪ ♪ You've softly permeated
and because of you ♪ ♪ I can’t make head or tail ♪ ♪ This is not my style ♪ ♪ Don’t smile like that again, yo ♪ ♪ I can’t pretend not to know, yo ♪ ♪ Why do I keep thinking of you? ♪ ♪ Oh my god, what are you? ♪ ♪ First time having this feeling feeling ♪ ♪ Did I flutter? Pit-a-pat ♪ ♪ I felt the destiny, yes you ♪ ♪ Babe ain’t nobody like you ♪ ♪ I'm the type who needs to
do everything I wanna do ♪ ♪ I'm the type who needs to
have everything I wanna have ♪ ♪ Now I want you bad I can’t lose ♪ ♪ So babe ain’t nobody like you ♪ ♪ Ain’t nobody like you ♪ ♪ No matter where I go, there’s only you ♪ ♪ The one to love me sweet ♪ ♪ Babe like you yeah, like you yeah ♪ ♪ Ain’t nobody like you
I like you ♪ ♪ No, nobody like you yeah
Nobody like you yeah ♪ ♪ Ain’t nobody like you ♪ That was perfect (Applause) I feel like I'm at a real karaoke Okay, it's time to go now
I hope you all get home safe And the exit is on your left You all have scored 100~ 100! ♥ Ryujin is surprised!
You should debut as a singer! See you next time ITZY Karaoke! The end! 