Hello! Today's the photoshoot day for my poster (Getting super excited) I'm so excited! (Why is Yeri so excited?) I always had the desire to I always had the desire to become a DJ, although I'm not sure if I can do a good job.. I think I did mention it (Yeri's petit appeal)
That I wanna be a radio DJ one day (Wish granted) Hello! Whoa (Congrats! Yeri's on-screen radio has been launched) (What's the name for it?) Yerihan Bang! Yerihan Bang! Isn't the logo cute as well? It's cute It's cute! (Yerihan Mukbang*)
*Eating streaming (Yerihan Choombang*)
*Dance streaming (Yerihan Jjickbang*)
*Photoshoot streaming (Yerihan Nubbang*)
I see, it can be changed like this
*Lying down streaming; LieV I think that would be fun, like my daily makeup session, What's in my bag !   
(Bag opening)
or 'What's in my bag' (Inside Yeri's bag) (Inside Yeri's bag)
Mask, (Inside Yeri's bag)
Mask, wallet, (Inside Yeri's bag)
Mask, wallet, lipstick I like this kind of things I think fake cooking would be fun I personally like film cameras a lot as well (Eyeing) Oh? Oh (laughs) (Broke the camera)
What's going on... Covering songs with a guitar would be fun too I often dance together with a dancer who took part in my concert (Full of passion★)
I think it's good to try everything! Asking Shinyoung to come would be fun Baek Yerin as well (Unnie collector)
Lee Yeoleum too (+ natural man)
Lee Seungyoon (+ AKMU)
Asking Chanhyuk to come would be super fun too (+ My members♡)
There'll be a Red Velvet unit soon too (She's got connections) (Please come visit Yerihan Bang♡) (Yeri listening to the details) (Yeri listening to the details (internal screaming)) (Providing the table with some moisture) It's getting filmed (laughs) (Foreshadowing the show's success!) (Recording it.MP4) (We don't accept a dry meeting) (Please...)
It's a foreshadowing! (Yeri's on-screen radio) (What's it called again?!) (Yerihan Bang) Cause I've got a lot of things that I want to show you, please look forward to Yeri's Yerihan bang .. and look forward to it Please remember to watch it, share it a lot to your friends, and please look forward to it Bye! (On-screen radio Yerihan Bang, starting right now) (Here's the studio for Yerihan Bang) (Streaming DJ Yeri enters) It's gonna start, and I'm kinda nervous! (Yerihan Bang, starting soon) It's fun (Full of joy) Is it this one? Do I really speak by myself? (empty laughter) Can you react to my words from time to time? The girls are here They're all there, you were hiding! (Calm down)
Gotta be comfortable with it, like a reality show (Opening rehearsal)
Hello, this is Yeri, the streaming DJ for Yerihan Bang (Congrats! Her wish is granted)
I really wanted to do something like this Radio.. You're ready, right? Yep! Hello, this is Yeri, the streaming DJ for Yerihan Bang! First day of school, first snow, first love Words that have 'first' in them, don't they make your heart flutter, and make you feel excited? The word 'first' is something that can only be used once So I think that it's a very meaningful word That's why I think this very first episode of  will be remembered for a long time With my excitement for the first episode, let me commence Yerihan Bang♡ This is a secret place as well as a studio for Yerihan Bang I'll be inviting various guests here, to have some keen* conversation with them, while you're watching
*Yerihan means keen, the title is a pun (Goal #1 for Yerihan Bang)
Because I wanted to have a deep and honest conversation, this show has been chosen to be in the form of on-screen radio (Asking)
Do you think it's a good idea? (Answering herself)
Right, thank you! (Goal #2 for Yerihan Bang)
Please watch me grow into a skilled MC There'll be a 'Weekly Yerim' session which will be showcasing my everyday life of each week (Coming soon!)
So please look forward to seeing my everyday life (I took the recent videos)
late at night, where I couldn't sleep well cause of my excitement, so they turned out to be a bit sentimental and cringe (Full of late night thoughts)
The one who edits it will have a hard time! I'm thinking of deleting them (laughs) I've put in a lot of consideration before inviting the first guest I'm sure all of you will be excited to find out who it is Let me play some music So, (music) click! (drum roll) Who could it be? That's none other than... (Yeri appears)
myself, Yeri! We gotta give a round of applause (This is purely voluntary) (annoyed) There's not enough reaction! So, that's me! (We could hear your sighs)
I heard people sighing but it's me! I'm gonna talk and laugh to myself (laughs) The team has asked me if I have someone whom I wanna invite, and I'm not sure if I can say it here Actor Cho Insung (laughs) I've thought of some of my friends to be invited, (Potential guests for Yerihan Bang) perhaps I could call them during the show They may or may not answer my call (First one to call) Why am I getting nervous, I'm only calling her (Friendly) Hello? (It's just funny) I talked to her beforehand that I'll be calling her so she's answering my call in a very cute way This is how I normally answer calls! (Thought I called wrong number)
I thought someone else answered the call You made me answer it like that Hello, this is Nayeon from Twice Ms Nayeon from Twice, nice to hear you (Voluntary applause) (Applause for Yeri's connections)
The booth is going wild! I gotta speak politely, right? I'm a DJ, you know (laughs) (Pronouncing clearly)
Congrats on the comeback of Twice! The comeback was on the 1st, I've been working towards it I know right, you must've been really busy Thank you for answering the call during your busy schedule I'm really looking forward to the  as well (Nayeon is an angel!)
I'll make sure I watch every episode The production team has given you a question (Q. How's Yeri as a younger friend?) (laughs) (laughs) (Triple laughter)
(laughs) Why are you laughing! What makes you laugh like that?! (Just a bit embarrassed...♡)
You know, it'll be so awkward if I say it seriously Say good words of me (Input command)
(Good words) Yeri is very honest, I count on Yeri a lot Same here Yeri's words cheer me up during my tough times More... speak more please (Input command)
(More good words) (The studio's full of emotions) Thanks a lot, unnie... All the best for your show! Thank you! (The call just now in short)
You heard it right? (Yeri)
is understanding, (Yeri)
is understanding, kind, (Yeri)
is understanding, kind, always treats others well, (Saved in the production team's hearts♡)
Heard it, right? (2nd call)
Let me call another person 2 of my siblings are still young and let me call them I'll call my mom Family chance! Yerim unnie My baby! Unnie! My friend is here She is? Ye-eun, you're being featured in a show now! Why?! Is it okay if your voice is featured? (Yerim's sister agrees) Please introduce yourself My name is Kim Ye-eun and I'm 12 What's mom doing? She went to recycle Recycle (laughs) Can you say, all the best for Yerihan Bang? Yup Yerim! Hope you get a lot of subscribers (Proud) (laughs) Kids these days know everything - Btw, unnie
- Huh? Gimme a sec, I'm getting a call (laughs) Hello? (Ye-eun has logged out) I'm starting to find it fun I'm finally not feeling as nervous (3rd call)
What if she doesn't answer? - Hello?
- She answered, wow! Why did you answer? - What?
- Why did you answer my call? This is ridiculous (laughs) (Gotta protect her friend)
This is being broadcasted, btw Oh really? (Tuning herself) Hello, this is Seulgi from Red Velvet And this is DJ Yeri Gosh, is this ? (Seulgi's having cereal drink)
I'm having cereal drink at home.. (Recycling and cereal drink lol)
Why are people doing funny things? I've got something going on later so I'm having a brunch (Seulgi the insider is eating waffle croffle*)
*waffle + croissant When are you gonna make it for me? Very soon You always say that! This time for real :) You're doing a unit with Irene It's already officially announced but Irene and I will be doing a unit comeback Will you be visiting Yerihan Bang? As a guest? Call us anytime I'll bring cereal drink and croffle (laughs) Seriously? Let me ask you a few questions (Q. First impression on Yeri?) (My dear Yeri)
is compassionate, (My dear Yeri)
is compassionate, and caring as if she's my own family Yeri, to me, is very precious and cute! She has a cute side Thank you :) Looking at Yeri is just funny (Suddenly calling her funny after praising) Please send me the evidence that you watched the show Got it! - Bye, unnie
- All the best (Hanging up the heartwarming call)
Bye my love! Bye! (exhausted) Oh, it's tiring Calling my members is the most tiring thing! So I've called some people, and I think they gave me (Thank you♡)
the energy to continue I'll be inviting them someday (Approaching without stereotypes) (But she's got what she likes)
Isn't this really Yes or Yes? (My words are correct)
Why do they hate it? This is a big no! (Learning to be a DJ)
Isn't this a really easy choice? Let's edit it again (laughs) It's entirely my world A word to myself? Brace yourself 