When people say: "When you sit in a chair like
I'm sitting in this chair right now" "I'm actually hovering over this chair" "but actually my butt is hovering
above the chair by this just tiny tiny amout"
"because of the electrons of my body" "because the electrons of my butt"
"are repelling the electrons of this chair" "it's not us actually touching the subatomic
material of the object" Is that really true? Does it mean that MC Hammer
has just been singing about physics all along? "Can't touch this !!" Alas, this doesn't take into account the fact
that the universe is quantum mechanical For example, you probably know that electrons
behave like spread-out waves and from chemistry, you probably also know that it's perfectly fine for two
negatively charged electrons to share the same energy level
of an atom or a molecule as long as they have their intrinsic spins
oriented in opposite directions So, even though electrons repel each other their wave packets can overlap. For example, check out this image
of a ring of iron atoms sitting on a surface of copper. see the overlap of the spread out electrons?
Now, would you call that touching? If you look at a dictionnary,
touch is usually defined as physical contact.
Well, contact is defined as touching physically.
Not much help. But most of people have
this intuitive idea that touch is something like two
solid objects so close together
there is no space between them. The trouble is this doesn't have
anything to do with overlapping waves which, as we know,
are how electrons actually behave. So, it seems that touch
is a word that may just be incapable of describing the actual
universe as we understand it today. Either that, or we should 
change our notion of touch to mean interaction at short distance
which is really what happens between electrons when you sit on a chair. But, regardless of whether 
or not we ever actually touch anything I think that when we talk about
the electromagnetic repulsion of your butt and your chair,
what we are really trying to say is Hey! Remember how cool it is
that we are made of atoms and molecules and that other people
made of atoms and molecules were clever enough 
to figure that out. Now, that is touching. 