“And who has a better story
than Bran the Broken?” In our first video about the finale, we looked at the tragic downfall
of Daenerys Targaryen, so now here’s our take
on what the rest of the Game of Thrones finale
was all about, on why Bran became King, and the
messages this final episode leaves us with about incremental progress, post-medieval history, and good
government in our times too. “Maybe the decision about what's
best for everyone should be left to, well, everyone.” The Take, you’ll also get an
extra month of NordVPN for free. Almost as soon as the story
destroys the Iron Throne, symbolically announcing the end
of absolute rule and the creation of a new world, the characters move on to deciding
who should be the next monarch. “We don't have a king or queen.” “You're the most powerful people
in Westeros. Choose one.” This undermines the gravity
of the lesson we just saw in Daenerys’ tragic downfall. Even if the king has no fancy chair
to sit on, this society still insists on concentrating power
in one sovereign. So why does Bran the Broken end up
on the throne-which-is-no-longer-iron? The story has signaled to us
that the only person fit to rule is someone who doesn’t want to. “I never wanted it. But I accepted it because the North is my home.” And Bran announces in episode four
that he doesn’t want anything. “I don’t really want anymore.” The king-who-doesn’t-want
on the throne is a neat solution given the story’s moral
of how ultimate power corrupts. “You will be my Hand.” “N-No, Your Grace, I don't want it.” “And I don't want to be king.” But in reality
it seems like an oversimplification. While it may be true that, as Douglas Adams wrote in
Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy, “It is a well-known fact that those
people who must want to rule people are, ipso facto,
those least suited to do it.” This doesn’t automatically make
the inverse true, that anyone who doesn’t want to rule
is therefore good at ruling. We have to assume that
being a good ruler also requires a bit of get-up-and-go, someone who’s motivated to make
things happen for their people. “You don’t have that kind of drive,
that kind of hubris, how in the hell are you gonna
make the kind of decisions that stop every other person
in this country?” Bran is evidently the big-picture guy. Tyrion worries about clean water
and funding the ships or brothels, while Bran looks into the distance to ponder whether dragons
will ever return. After Tyrion asks if Bran
would accept the crown, Bran says “Why do you think
I came all this way” suggesting he foresaw
this outcome all along. This characteristic lack of interference
as he waits for events to play out, “The things we do for love,” offering only fragments of insight
when he clearly knows much more, “He’ll come for me,” is what can be infuriating about Bran. He behaves like an all-knowing
but passive observer. While the story punished Daenerys’
claims of divine right, Bran truly is a kind of demi-god, and it’s hard to know what to make
of this choice to put a god-like being in power. In a modern context,
this could even translate to putting some kind of computer or
internet-like hive-mind in charge, which is intriguing, but terrifying. For some reason,
as they debate what to do, the lords and ladies of Westeros defer
to their talkative prisoner Tyrion— “You are not here to speak. Everyone has had enough words
from you.” “You’re right. It’s not for you to decide,” —who decides the key to a
successful government is the campaign message. “There's nothing in the world
more powerful than a good story.” As mankind’s living memory
and the collection of all our stories, Bran embodies what is most valuable
about our species -- the core of humanity that
the Night King wanted to wipe out. “He wants to erase this world,
and I am its memory.” Thus, even if it doesn’t
make the most sense to jump to the conclusion
that Bran would be a better ruler than the far savvier
and more invested Sansa —who, let’s be honest,
is a little unfairly passed over here --by crowning Bran, Game of Thrones
is symbolically championing the prime value and importance
of the stories we tell. “What unites people? Armies? Gold? Flags? Stories.” A good story rallies nations
behind not only a ruler, but also a set of shared ideas,
values and principles. It’s the emotional glue
that binds a people together. The darker side of this, though, is the observation that the reason
we elect our rulers is highly divorced from how good they will actually be
at ruling-- and that explains more than a few
of our modern society’s problems. “So I’m not sure about this part
where I say I want to president for all Americans. I mean, do I? All of them?” “How about real Americans?” “Oh yeah, that’s good, and then
we can figure out what I mean later.” Show creators David Benioff and
D.B. Weiss said they were delivering the planned ending that
Martin shared with them. “All hail Bran the Broken.” So we can assume Martin
also intended for Bran to end up on the throne
and Daenerys to go bad. Still, both these events may
come across as more coherently fleshed-out in his rendition. The pilot of the show--
like the opening of A Song of Ice and Fire —is really all about Bran. “Don’t look away.” This sweet summer child losing his legs is the impetus
for this whole collective journey. “Oh, my sweet summer child.” Yet along the way, the show lost track of and frequently
sidelined this character. Thus when he returns
and is revealed to be the key to the story’s endgame,
this doesn’t quite have the clarity and resonance we might imagine
it could have. It would be impossible to choose
a wiser ruler than the Raven who knows pretty much everything. We might even say he’s reminiscent
of Plato’s ideal of the Philosopher-King. He represents that the leader should feel his people’s concerns
as his own, to the point of basically being an abstract collection
of his people’s knowledge and will “He is our memory,
the keeper of all our stories. The wars, weddings, births,
massacres, famines.” Ultimately, the new king’s epithet,
“Bran the Broken,” “We serve at your pleasure,
King Bran the Broken,” leans into the way that the show
has tried to give affirmation to characters who have been dismissed or othered in some way, like the many literal and figurative
bastards who are the focus of the story. “I’ll have a soft spot in my heart for cripples, bastards,
and broken things” In the world of the earlier seasons,
the seven kingdoms were very much separate feudal
territories, bickering, plotting and vying for dominance. “And I know that our enemies
hate each other almost as much as they hate us.” So the far more realistic ending
to this story, given history and what we’ve seen of Westeros society,
would be a strategic marriage. The War of the Roses between the House of Lancaster
and the House of York, which inspired the feud
of the early seasons between House Lannister and House Stark, ended with the Lancastrian Henry
Tudor returning from exile and solidifying his claim to the throne by marrying Elizabeth of York. Tyrion Lannister and Sansa Stark
would represent the Game of Thrones version of that. They’re also the two characters
who most embody realpolitik-- the pragmatic or realistic approach
to politics which takes the world as-it-is, rather than trying to mold it to fit a particular ideology
or moral standard. Tyrion learned this art from the
master, his father Tywin, “The Tyrell army is helping us
to win this war. Do you really think it’s wise
to refuse them?” “There’s nothing to refuse. This is a plot. Plots are not public knowledge,” while Sansa learned it primarily
from her enemies, like Cersei. “I learned a great deal from her.” And indeed, Game of Thrones has been at its best
and most sophisticated when it relishes “the game” of government. “Our last working mine ran dry
three years ago.” “Then how do we pay for anything?” “The Crown owes the Iron Bank
of Braavos a tremendous amount of money.” As Martin once put it, “What was Aragorn’s tax policy?” Instead of following in this spirit,
the finale of Game of Thrones shows the remaining lords and ladies of
Westeros calmly and nobly agreeing, in a matter of minutes, to a more enlightened
form of rule. “To Brandon of House Stark,
I say aye.” It seems almost everyone present
has learned and grown so much from the recent turmoil, they just genuinely
want what’s best for Westeros and no longer care
for the self-interests that have always driven them. This sudden effacement
of their previous characteristics is what makes the scene ring false, like we are seeing characters give
voice to the storytellers’ conclusion, rather than still acting in accordance
with their human nature. So what do the nobility
of Game of Thrones decide that the new, better
government looks like? First of all, it’s clear that their idea
of progress is incremental change. And they laugh down Sam’s proposal
of democratic voting. “Maybe we should give
the dogs a vote as well.” Tyrion ends up creating an elective
monarchy, which should theoretically save the people of Westeros from the terrible heirs
of a hereditary monarchy. “From now on, rulers will not be born. They will be chosen. On this spot are the lords
and ladies of Westeros.” There have been a number
of elective monarchies throughout different eras of history. Often, though, elective monarchies
have tended to become hereditary ones in practice, as acting monarchs
end up wanting their children to rule. But at least the ruler’s control
now has more checks and balances, and in theory, bloodline is no longer
the deciding factor in who should rule. In fact, none of our last remaining Targaryen, Lannister, or Stark heirs have yet procreated or seem to have
babies on the mind, suggesting it’s very possible some of these ancient
lineages could fall out of existence. In broad strokes, the finale gestures at major developments in post-
medieval society as the foundations of Modern Europe emerged. After the Wars of the Roses,
the power of feudal lords began to wane, due in part to the nobility’s
losses of life in their extensive warring and even more so to the effects
of the Black Death. The bubonic plague wiped out
so much of the population that labor shortages gave the people
a little more power to demand better working conditions. In Game of Thrones, the White Walkers are a very apt
stand-in for the plague. And indeed, this double whammy
of fighting two brutal battles, against formidable disease
on one front, and humankind’s wars on the other, is exactly what we see in the final
season of Game of Thrones. After this, just as in history,
the human species does survive, but the heavy casualties
of both struggles fundamentally remake society. Meanwhile, the post-medieval period saw increased travel and trade
with foreign countries, which reshaped European economies. Arya going off to find what would presumably
correspond to the New World “What’s west of Westeros?” is a gesture toward
the Age of Discovery. This Age prospered especially
under England’s Queen Elizabeth I, who seems to be the inspiration for
Sansa’s future as Queen of the North. “The Queen of the North! The Queen of the North!” In the scene of her coronation, she wears her red hair down
like Elizabeth’s, and has no man at her side, just as the Virgin Queen skillfully
used her unmarried status to her advantage as a ruler. Europe’s growing emphasis on trade
saw the rise of the merchant class, who ushered in early capitalism
to replace feudalism. We can see this in the way
that two prominent members of the small council in the finale
are not born lords, but have risen to high status
through their own efforts. “These projects will begin as soon as the Master of Coin
and Lord of Lofty Titles provides funding.” The increasing wealth
of the merchant class prefigured the modern middle class, and as they got wealthier,
the kings got poorer. In fact, historically in the
post-medieval period, the monarchy actually became
more centralized and powerful than it had been under feudalism,
but ultimately the show’s emphasis on Tyrion and the small council
is hinting at the fact that, over time, monarchs’ absolute rule gives way
to parliamentary governments. “Good. Sons of kings can be
cruel and stupid, as you well know.” The scene we get
of the small council starting its rule implies that Bran is closer
to a figurehead, “Do carry on with the rest,” while Tyrion as Hand actually
leads the nitty-gritty of ruling. “It is my theory, based on my years
of work on the Casterly Rock sewers, that clean water leads to a healthier
population.” In that respect, our video arguing
that Tyrion would end up ruler, came pretty close. “Cause you wanted Tyrion to
come through and be the boss.” “Me, personally? Yes.” “That would have been a great finish.” The independent north “The North will remain an independent kingdom,” could correspond to Scotland, which fought hard at various points
throughout history for its independence from England, while of course in a modern context
Sansa’s succession can’t help making us think of Brexit. Meanwhile, a lot of what we’re seeing
feels like it’s trying to talk about today, as Tyrion’s elective monarchy is
a kind of feudal version of the electoral college
at the center of US elections. And when the powerful elite
of Westeros laugh off the idea of letting the people decide
their own fates, “I’ll ask my horse,” this might make us think
of the fact that, even in our modern representative
government, big-money interests and the powerful few still have
the lion’s share of control over which options get viably presented to
the average voter. “Ma’am, it’s Amy. She sounds uncomfortable, like she’s with a member
of the public.” “Okay, that’s what she’s got:
one of the normals here.” The episode was full of callbacks
to previous lines, “Love is the death of duty,” “He knew he'd never walk again,
so he learned to fly,” “I once brought a jackass
and a honeycomb into a brothel,” to previous visuals,
and the fulfillment of foreshadowing. It had the feeling of a circle, returning
key characters to where they’ve been. Arya makes good on what she told Lady Crane she wanted
to do in season six. “But what's west of Westeros?” “I don't know.” “Nobody does. That's where all the maps stop.” The in-show history book, with
its meta-title A Song of Ice and Fire, reminds us that Sam disliked its
original name. "A Chronicle of the Wars
Following the Death of King Robert I. You don't like the title? What would you call it, then?" "Mm, possibly something
a bit more poetic?" Here the book is presented by Sam,
the story’s stand-in for Martin himself. “I helped him with the title.” The omission of Tyrion’s contribution “What does he say about me?” “I don’t believe you’re mentioned,” is a throwback to Varys’ speech “The king won't give you any honors,
the histories won't mention you, but we will not forget.” Tyrion moving the chairs around
before the small council meeting mirrors the way he awkwardly drags his chair during a meeting with Tywin
in season three. And when he tells Jon: "A few years as Hand of the King
would make anyone want to piss off the edge of the world." This is a reference to Tyrion doing
exactly that in season one. This exchange between
Davos and Bronn: “Well soon there won't be
no more coin.” “‘Any more.’” “You master of grammar now too?" is a shout-out to his old buddy
Stannis Baratheon’s habit of policing grammar “It’s four less fingernails to clean.” “Fewer.” “How many men do we have in the north to
fight? Ten thousand less?” “Fewer.” Brienne filling out Jaime's page
in the Book of the Brothers fulfills a moment from season four . “It's the duty of the Lord Commander to
fill those pages. And there's still room left on mine." Arya’s final scene looking forward
at the bow of her ship is a call-back to the episode “The Children”, which is actually the one we
highlighted in our collaboration series “The Best of Thrones.” The season 4 finale was all about
young life rising up and overthrowing the old establishments, creating a
new world in its image. Just like “The Children,” the finale ends with
a choral rendition of the main theme. And this very final shot of the finale is filled with quite a few children
following Jon Snow into the frontier of the north beyond Westeros. As Bran the Broken is revealed to be
the Aragorn of this story, Jon--its “ring-bearer” or
“throne-destroyer”--is likewise very much broken by the weight of what he’s
just done. “You are my queen, now and always.” At the end of Lord of the Rings, Frodo can’t return to regular life
in the Shire but leaves Middle Earth for the Undying Lands, and likewise
Jon goes north, cast out of mainland Westeros and heading toward a presumably simpler, more
spiritual life. The farewell between
the Stark siblings “The North is free, thanks to you”
“But they lost their king.” parallels the scene in
The Return of the King when the Hobbits are saying
goodbye to Frodo. “We set out to save the Shire, Sam. And it has been saved,
but not for me.” If we buy into the idea that the Starks have the strongest
moral compass in this story, then we might read their traveling
off in different directions as an optimistic message that
their honorable, egalitarian values are spreading around the world. Grey Worm and the Unsullied are perhaps the most ill-served by the finale. After Grey Worm refuses to be
bought with the offer of Highgarden, “We do not need payment. We need justice,” he leads the Unsullied off
to Missandei’s homeland, where they once talked
of going together. “My people are not peaceful. We will protect you.” The two groups of outsiders
unfortunately end up painted in a problematic way
as the merciless conquerers, which is a disappointing end for some of the only remaining
non-white characters on the show. What fails to satisfy about the
Game of Thrones finale-- or more to the point,
what fails to be iconic about it-- is that the final episode wraps
things up neatly, almost with a bow, instead of raising questions
or planting haunting thought-starters, as the most influential
TV endings have done. The finale concluded a season
that disappointed many, for a variety of reasons Ultimately, though, what was
most tonally jarring about the finale was that it more or less transformed
Westeros into the world as it ought to be,
rather than as it is. For years, the show was
always at its best when it didn’t give us what we,
or our heroes, wanted. “The Lannisters send their regards” and this neat utopian resolution feels at odds with the kind
of story Game of Thrones once was. “If you think this has a happy ending,
you haven’t been paying attention.” It wasn’t about black and white
morality, but a world of gray. It showed us appearances
disjointed from their inner natures, and most of all, it gave us a world
in which good often didn’t triumph, “Burn the villages, burn the farms. Let them know what it means
to choose the wrong side.” in which the bad guys,
more often than not, won by playing dirty,
and the best of plans fell victim to accident, chaos and randomness. “Chaos isn’t a pit. Chaos is a ladder.” In short, Game of Thrones combined fantasy
and medieval historical elements with the characteristics
of our own world. “The powerful have always
preyed on the powerless. That’s how they became
powerful in the first place.” When the show opens, this is a world
that believes magic is extinct. And we witness the story of what happens when magic
re-enters a cynical society, as Westeros confronts
two opposite surreal threats: the Ice of the White Walkers
and the Fire of the Dragons. If, as Martin has said, the White Walkers correspond
to climate change, and the dragons represent
nuclear weapons or other weapons
of mass destruction, then both underline how
--while “magic” sounds fun in theory— “Swish and flick,” in practice it’s more often terrifying. “Magic” really just means
what is beyond our understanding and our control. It’s those greater forces
which have the potential to overwhelm and destroy us. So ultimately Game of Thrones
fears the magic of its story, and sets it up as the antagonist that regular, decent people
have to band together to overcome. Game of Thrones uses magic both to recall
a past in which mankind was more at the mercy of its environment,
and to speak to new, present dangers humankind could face,
reminding us that, despite our advanced society,
we are still fragile and more vulnerable to extinction
than we know. As scary magic is forced
into remission-- gone for now
but likely to return some day --balance is restored, and this first sign of green tells us
spring is coming once again. Society’s best hope appears
to be this scruffy group of misfits who’ve made it through hell and back
thanks to their level-headed wits and a lot of luck. And while it’s been a long time
coming, it seems that for Westeros at last a change is gonna come. “I’m sorry I wasn’t there
when you needed me.” “You were exactly
where you were supposed to be.” 