- [Coyote] Today here in
Colorado, I'm gonna get the chance to pal around with not one, but two foxes. You never know what's gonna happen when you get into an
enclosure with two foxes. Come on, go for it. I got cheese. (claws scratching) (laughing) (plucking guitar) People sometime ask, "Coyote what is the most
difficult animal to film with?" My answer is, "Foxes." Yes, they are adorable. There's no arguing that. But what you don't realize is that getting them to
sit still for the cameras is virtually impossible. Not only will they not sit
still, they are tricksy. And it's my opinion, the foxes believe they're actually the
ones running the show. To be honest, it's a
pretty accurate belief. Try directing a fox, and you will understand
exactly what I mean. What's goin' on guys? Here we are at the Colorado
Wolf and Wildlife Center. Now of course, they have
wolves, they have coyotes. But today, we're getting into an enclosure with the red fox. (soft piano music) Over the course of my career,
I've had multiple chances to get into enclosures with foxes. Once with a baby fox in Alaska and once with a full grown fox in Florida. But today, here in Colorado,
I'm gonna get the chance to pal around with not one, but two foxes. You never know what's gonna happen when you get into an
enclosure with two foxes. So if you guys are ready, let's head in and see what happens. Hi guys, who's ready to play? So we're gonna be hanging
out with Rhett and Scarlett and this time of year, the
foxes have their winter coats that have grown in. So they're incredibly fluffy. Now to get into the fox enclosure, it's a very intricate system. This is a double gate system and we wanna make sure that
the foxes do not get out. So what I'm gonna do is open up this gate and guys come on in with the cameras. It appears that the foxes are very curious and getting up close with
us right from the get go. So that's good. In the past, I've had a lot of trouble getting the foxes to
actually get close to me. Probably 'cause I'm a coyote. Let's go through the
gate, and with any luck this is gonna be an
incredible fox encounter. All right, we're comin' in. Hi buddy, how are you? Hi. All right, Mario close
that gate behind you. Oop, come here, come on this way. - [Mario] Oop, that's why
we got the double fences. - Run, run, run, run, run, run. All right, hi, how are you? Look at this. Okay, now any time I work with a mammal, the first thing I wanna do
is just enter into it's world and give it a second to
acclimate to us being here. And I know how this goes, you immediately wanna walk in and have something magical happen. It always takes a little while before the animals get used
to you and then of course, that's when the encounter becomes magical. Okay, let's just walk
around and take a tour. So what we have here, is a fox slide. So if I was a fox, just for
fun you could slide down this and bounder off into the snow. Smells very musky in here. So over here is the little fox den, right. This is perfect. It's like a little fox hotel. What's really cool is check this out. Come around to the front side. If you look up in over
here, this is the fox skyway where the foxes can
actually move from one side of an enclosure to the other. Pretty big space for these
foxes to be moving around in. Do you know where, do you
know where Scarlett is? Rhett, do you know where Scarlett is? So Scarlett's in here somewhere. And I thought we'd be
hanging out with two foxes, but it appears that Rhett is, the one who has the most interest in playing and hanging out. Don't you take my hat. I see what you're doing. I make a great step stool. - Coyote, I found Scarlett. - [Coyote] You did? - [Mario] Yep. - [Coyote] All right, here I come. This is how foxes are. They're sometimes gregarious, sometimes just wanna hunker down and hide in a tiny little burrow like this. And I don't wanna stick my
hand all the way down there. If Scarlett's gonna come
out and hang out with us, she gonna come out and hang out. We'll see if we can entice her out. Let's see, Scarlett,
come here kitty, cheese. Oh look, look cheese. There's cheese. Here she comes. Hi, I'm sorry did we wake you up? I know you're sleeping just before sunset. Foxes specialize in coming out
at night to do their hunting. Primarily nocturnal. You wanna try to get
Scarlett out of there Rhett? Here we go, all right now you're out. Well the good news is,
Scarlett has joined the party and I've got a pocket full of cheese. All right, let's see if we
can have a little run around with two foxes. Let's show everybody how
good a fox is at climbing. Oop, look at that. Now you may be saying to yourself, wow this is about as
adorable it gets for a canid. Does a fox make a good pet? Absolutely not. Foxes require an incredible
amount of attention. They're also going to
musk all over everything and when it comes to a fox
actually being in your house, this is not something you'd
ever want to consider as a pet. Now the reason that these foxes
are here at the Wolf Center is because these are a rescued foxes. These foxes can not be
released back into the wild. But as you can see they're
getting plenty of enrichment, plenty of exercise and
they're living a very happy and very healthy life here in Colorado. Now when you hear the term Red Fox, obviously this very definitive
red coat is the first thing that comes to mind. But the red fox actually
comes in a variety of different color phases. They can even be blackish gray. So oftentimes, people will mistake red foxes for gray foxes. Now the red fox is the
largest of the fox species and this fox isn't quite as
large as it looks, right. It's coat is so puffy right
now, because it's winter. And they've got all these
outer protective guard hairs that keep away snow and water. And then it's that soft downy
undercoat that keeps them warm even in temperatures that
drop well below zero degrees. And the reason that Rhett is
so interested in my fingers at the moment is because
they taste like cheese. You wanna show me how your slide works? If we can get Rhett to go
up to the top of the slide, he'll actually come down and plop out right here into the snow. Unfortunately, I think right now Rhett is much more interested in
checking out these cameras than he is actually going into the slide. It's funny how the foxes
always seem to love the camera crew more than they love me. Ah, and that's probably a
pretty good shot to get. Matt, don't move. That is now you, with a fox on your back. You look just like a rock, so I can see why this would
definitely be a good spot for a fox to hang out and
analyze the environment. There you go, so that was
so with a fox on your back. Well done. See, this is what it takes, you just have to be in
the enclosure for a while and the more and more time we spend here, the more and more comfortable
the fox is gonna get. All right, he's testing you out. - I don't have any cheese. There buddy, ooh, likes my coat. - [Coyote] Well he's got
something to nibble on. Here you wanna play with my glove? That's cool, right? Ooh, all right, there he goes. He's got my glove, let's see what happens. Now I only have one glove and the odds of me being
able to get that glove back are not real good. Uh oh, uh oh, you see what's happening? Ah, ah Rhett my, oh boy. Rhett has taken my glove up
and through the fox skyway. I think he's gonna go
up there and chew it up. Rhett I'm comin' after you buddy. All right, here we go. Going straight into fox mode. And the good thing is
that all this structure is really well built, so it will definitely support my weight. Oh, Rhett. (rock guitar music) So this is the entryway. I see Rhett, he's up there with my glove. (rock guitar music) (chuckling) I see you. Do you still have my glove? Awh, you're going all that way. (sighs) I knew it was going
to be a game of cat and mouse. Every time that I film with
foxes, it's never easy. Okay, here we go. (sneaky bass music) Getting closer, there he is and I can definitely see that he's no longer paying attention to my glove, which means I might be
able to get it back. There's my glove, see it? It's right there. Cool. (mysterious violin music) Hi. How are you? I see you, I know. Yeah, that's the camera. I've come all the way
into your, into your, no not my hat, don't eat the hat. No, no, no, look he's
trying to get my hat. I see you, no. Look who got the glove back. Oh, oh (chuckling) I got it. I got it, I'm putting it back on my hand. I had to get it back. Well, what else do you have up here? This is definitely the kind of spot where a fox would stash all it's goodies. We've got deer bones and pieces of fur. Hi, how's it goin'? You wanna go back the other way and we'll get some cheese treats? What do you think? Would that be cool? All right bud, this way, come on. We're gonna make it. I know you're probably
like, "What is this crazy "Coyote guy doing inside of my enclosure?" Whoo, and I'm out. How about that Rhett? Are you impressed? A Coyote in the fox skyway. How did I do? Did I do good? I think I did all right. Okay, let's head back down. He's definitely earned that cheese treat. As you can see, I've got my glove back. Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna put my glove in this pocket, so that you can't get it. 'Cause I can clearly
see that at this point, the gloves are completely useless, unless it's to get your attention. Look at that now, can you
wait here for a second? I'm gonna go down there
and give you the cheese when you get down, ready? Down this, oop, I guess we're
gonna go over the slide. There you go. (laughs) I mean, when you don't
wanna go through the slide, I guess you go over the slide. Okay, Sumari, you got your
camera in a good position? - [Suamri] Yeah. - What' I'm gonna try
to do is put my GoPro at the bottom of the slide too. I am so determined to get
this fox to go down the slide. All right you know the routine, up here. Okay, what a good boy. Okay, there it is. Oh, it's cheese. Hold on a second, let's come this way. I want you to go down the slide, ready? Go down the slide. (claws scratching on slide) Yes! That was a fox going down the slide. It's right there, get it. Oh, what a good boy. You did it, you did it. What a good fox. Now when a fox lays down
in the cold snow like this, it's coat will completely
keep it insulated. Then it can wrap it's
tail around it's body, to add even extra warmth. You comin' down again? Come on, go for it. Come on. (kissing sounds) I got cheese. (claws scratching on slide) (laughs) That is the greatest thing, I think any of us have seen all day long. A fox going down a slide. The big thing is that sometimes
it just takes patience. Time and patience for these animals to get completely comfortable. Rhett was comfortable
right from the get go. But as you can see, Scarlett is getting more
and more comfortable. Ah, she can hear there's
cheese in my pocket. Here you go sweet. (exciting orchestral music) Oh I can definitely say, that as compared to the fox
videos we've filmed in the past, this experience with
these two frolicking foxes is without question,
the best fox encounter we have ever captured on camera. I'm Coyote Peterson, be brave. Stay wild. We'll see you on the next adventure. All right, you ready for some more cheese? Let's eat. I think I got one more piece. (plucking violin music) I'm fairly certain that the chaotic nature of this episode was clearly
orchestrated by the foxes. I told you at the start, they
love to direct the scene. And if I were to be honest,
they did a great job. They were definitely
the best on camera foxes we have ever worked with. It's not hard to fall in love with a fox. From their bushy coats, to
their black button noses, everything about them
screams cuteness overload. Yet, don't let the
adorable facade fool you. These animals do not make good pets. I know, I'm destroying
your hopes and dreams, but I do have some good news. If you want to have an up close encounter with Rhett and Scarlett,
all you need to do is visit the Colorado Wolf and Wildlife Center. For more information or
to book the ultimate tour where you can meet foxes
and wolves in person, make sure to visit their website. - I just outfoxed a fox. I put a GoPro right there where
Scarlett likes to hang out, she actually filmed herself. So that's pretty good,
pretty clever I think. Look! There she goes, she's smelling the GoPro. - [Coyote] Hey Coyote Pack. If you thought frolicking with these foxes was a fantastic experience, make sure to go back and watch the episode where I got to pounce around
with a baby fox in Alaska. And don't forget, subscribe
and ring the notification bell so you can join me and the crew
on our next wild adventure. (laughing) How cool is that? (boom) (wind blowing) (howling) 