This is J2N Today is Monday, July 20th! The music video of Irene & Seulgi's Naughty was released at noon today. I'd like to take a look.Haha Just in time, I finished shooting a video of Monster's dance cover last week. I'm trying to upload a video at 10:15 tomorrow night.Haha So I'm going to see how this music video will feel. Please enjoy today's video! You're wearing a black mini-dress! It's pretty Your outfit is so dazing!?! She''s so pretty. Wow, both of you look so good in a hair tie. The mood between the two is very contrasting. Seulgi is in the dark and Irene is in the bright outer space! They passed each other like in a drama Oh, what's up with the atmosphere, they're both so pretty Oh, the music video starts with a monotone! What's the dance?! It's totally a tutting choreography Seulgi is the lead vocalist. I love her start. Wow! But the choreography is all about tutting! (Surprised bc it's so new) You two have white-black outfits Wow, it's so cool. WOW couple dance is amazing?! Wow, the choreography is so pretty. It's a Tutting dance, but there are a lot of feminine elements in the body movement! I love the song. It's so pretty Wow, both of you have such pretty dance moves! There's finger tutting in the choreography. It's kind of like that fish lens It's like seeing Seulgi in Irene's eyes! It's so nice, so fresh. The background's turned into a cave. The lighting pattern is so interesting and the effects of the video are unique. I feel like I'm at an exhibition titled Light and Shadows.LOL The choreography is so pretty. But it's hard to cover it because I'm not good at tutting Oh, so pretty. Wow, the video is so sophisticated. It's the best. The layout (+motion graphics) in the video is so sensual. Oh, I love your voice Oh, the dance is so pretty. Of course, Irene, too. Wow, even your fingers have detailed dance moves. Best... It's so pretty. Ohhhhh dancers appeared! It's so pretty. This music video is made up of simple looks and neat and pretty choreography! I love duet tutting too!! So pretty The choreography is so perfect and well-synchronized that it's thrilling.ㅜㅜ The song is my type. The choreography is so pretty. So pretty,, what?! Oh, it's like watching a VR exhibition.LOL Your outfit is so pretty. Each outfit looks so good on them two. Bye~~ Irene went to the bright side and Seulgi to the dark side! It's so nice. It's definitely luxurious and it's like exhibition mood,,, The outfit is simple and the background is simple, but the pretty gardening choreography makes it look neat and clean Irene and Seulgi's neat and sophisticated styling adds up to the luxury of this music video. The best!! The most impressive thing for me! Irene-Seulgi's white-black contrast was a little predictable. They filmed Irene and Seulgi's individual shots with these enlarged fish-eye lenses when it entered the 2nd verse. Maybe they took it with a different lens and edited it that way, but...! When Irene's part came out, I was looking at it thinking, "Oh, it's a very first-person perspective." In the part of Seulgi, there are movements that look like Irene in white. Irene and Seulgi are dancing to each other's eyes from the first person's perspective! As a viewer watching this video, I was able to focus on it so much! Overall, the mood of the music video, as I said earlier, I felt like I was seeing a piece of art at an exhibition with a title like "Light and Shadow."Haha And KPOP scenes and other genres are being combined a lot these days. Chungha's PLAY, I, and Stay Tonight have a very noticeable genre. Those things make me feel like the boundaries between K-pop scenes and other genres are breaking down. I think it's really great for an old KPOP fan who loves dancing I think it has the advantage of being able to see various dances of my favorite artists. I think it was fun to see that there were more ways to express the charm of the song. Today, I watched Irene & Seulgi's Naughty music video alone! If you enjoyed today's video, please press like and subscribe! See you in the next video! Bye~ 