What makes you human? Is it your ability to think? The emotions you feel? The memories you keep? Or the fact that you can even question your
own awareness? If something feels real...does it make it
so? Or is it just a well-designed comfort. This is the identity crisis that inhabits
the world of Blade Runner. A futuristic dystopian reality where many
of the things we take for granted have been forgotten. The cities are overcrowded, animals have become
rare, the food sources are questionable, and the weather is increasingly unwelcoming. Many have decided to live in colonies off-world
leaving most the un-wealthy or sickly behind. The only silver lining to be found in this
bleak outlook is the advancements of technology that shine through the decay. A hopeful light that gave way to the creation
of replicants. Bio-engineered androids built to serve and
fulfill our different needs... But this novelty brings certain uncomfortable
questions to the surface. In today's video we will be exploring the
expanded world of Blade Runner and how it presents characters struggling in a reality
that makes them question themselves and what it means to be human. -May I ask you a personal question? -Sure... -Have you ever retired a human by mistake? The first movie introduces us to Rick Deckard
a blade runner meant to hunt down rogue replicants that would illegally find themselves hiding
on earth. A hardboiled-esque detective that has retired
his fair share of artificial beings and has no problem with continuing to do so... Or at least that's where the story begins. Deckard's journey throughout the film is meant
to be taken from a place of complete certainty to a state of internal twilight. And this uncertain state is evoked with the
balance of light and shadow in the world. The film noir aesthetics; darkened rooms,
harsh light, obstructed views by smoke, smog or rain, the light peaking through venetian
blinds are all meant to accent an atmospheric mystery. An image not fully formed. A truth unfolding or remaining obscured. Here the uncertainty is initially tied to
the case of the missing replicants, but it's truly meant to represent Deckard's own increasingly
unclear state of mind. The self-doubt this journey will make him
experience... one based on the authenticity of emotion. Deckard has no problem retiring replicants
because he views them as man-made creations that only copy life but don't harbor actual
human complexities. -Replicants are like any other machine. They are either a benefit or a hazard...If
they're a benefit it's not my problem. The expression "retiring" is also a term that
denotes a certain lack of sympathy. It's as if they are referring to an object
that has outlived it's use... but for the replicants it would be considered murder. Deckard's perspective begins to change when
he gets to know Rachael, an advanced replicant with implanted memories that is not fully
aware of her own artificiality. She manages to emotionally confuse the main
character. His resistance towards her is softened by
her reaction to the news that she's a replicant. He can't help but pity her situation, but
it soon develops into empathy. She questions if there is anything genuine
about herself. When she's playing the piano, she mentions
she remembers lessons but isn't sure if those memories are hers or someone else's
He answers: -You play beautifully
Affirming her personhood. Which is a contrast to his initial stance:
-...She's beginning to suspect I think- -Suspect? How can it not know what it is? Deckard recognizes Rachael's humanity not
only because of her very apparent ability to have feelings but also because of his own
emotional response towards her. It blurs his definition of what is real, and
it ultimately leads him to question his own authenticity. This is even explored serval years later,
when he's being told that perhaps the reason, he fell for Rachael was because it was by
design...but Deckard responds: -I know what's real... Deckard might question his own humanity, but
what isn't up for debate is that his emotions for Rachael will always feel real. -I've never retired something that was born
before -What's the difference? -To be born is to have a soul I guess... -You telling me no? The world of Blade Runner is one where the
characters find themselves with limited agency. One way of manifesting this is by the brutal
weather the characters are forced to survive in. A situation that's just getting worse and
more toxic and yet they have no real way of controlling it. Another is by the constant intruding lights
of the city. "The shafts of light represent the invasion
of privacy by a supervising force; a form of control. You are never sure who it is, but even in
the darkened seclusion of your home, unless you pull your shades down, you are going to
be disturbed at one time or another." In Blade Runner 2049 the only character that
has semblance of control is Wallace, the inventor of the new more compliant version of replicants. That's why Wallace's lab and offices are warm
and inviting, a contrast to everything in the rest of the somber, chaotic and smog filled
exterior. But this is also presented with the character
of K, another blade runner. A replicant that's is built to obey its superiors
and hunt down its own kind. He's kept on a short leash by being constantly
tested to make sure his emotions haven't strayed him off the path of compliance. -Do you dream about being interlinked? -Interlinked. -What's it like to hold your child in your
arms, interlinked. He's made to take orders and to execute them
without question, but things start to change when he's ordered to hunt down a child born
from a replicant. Much like Deckard, K's journey leads him down
a path of self-doubt. Where every revelation is reassessing who
he is... tempting him with a forbidden dream... The case he's on is confirming that his memories
are real and that leads him to believe that he might be the child he's looking for. -Born...not made...hidden with care... It's a reality that he's wants. We can see it in the way he plays house with
his artificial girlfriend. He wants to be loved, to be needed, to have
a name, to become: -A real boy now
This is presented with the cinematography and the use of scale. A small silhouette looking for his place in
the world, questioning his relationship with his surrounding and the people around him. He's treated like a dog in the service of
humans and he's hated by replicants for obeying their commands. He just doesn't seem to fit anywhere but if
he was a human, then that would change everything. That's why it's a punch to the gut when he
finds out the memories, he holds don't belong to him. His new identity is taken away and he's left
an emptied-out silhouette. -You imagined it was you? You did... Throughout the movies, K's hasn't really been
able to have agency, he was either following his superior's orders, being used by Wallace
or being motivated by memories that weren't his. And now to add insult to injury he's being
told by a group of replicants to kill Deckard (the person he thought was his father), so
he doesn't lead Wallace back to Ana (Deckard's actual daughter). It's here where K finally takes control over
his situation. He decides to give himself purpose and do
what he feels is right by saving Deckard with a last act of self-sacrifice...giving Ana
a chance to meet her father. The memory K would've wanted to have. -All those moments will be lost in time...like
tears...in rain... As humans, we want to matter, we want our
lives to have an effect or a meaning or just to simply be able to exist. The best example that inhabits this is Roy
Batty, a replicant with a short life span that is fighting to exist. He doesn't want money, power or to overthrow
humans... - I want more life...father. He's a character driven by his emotions of
anger against his creator for having been given such a short life and of fear for not
knowing how much time he has left. -You were made as well as we could make you. -But no to last... The emotions he feels are what anyone at death's
door would experience, but he refuses to go away silently into the night and fight for
his existence. Surprisingly, Roy's last act is not of vengeance
or violence...He saves Deckard and sits in the rain with him waiting for his last moments. -I've seen things you people wouldn't believe... Like any human being facing mortality he was
worried that his memories would go unnoticed, that he would just disappear and be forgotten. But at the end he actually does get his wish. If he would have killed Deckard, Roy would
have died alone without anyone to hear his last words. By saving Deckard, he gets to live past his
expiration date by imparting his memories and his humanity onto to someone else. Memories, emotions and agency are how the
world of Blade Runner shows humanity. Without memories we don't have a past and
without a past we don't have an identity. Without emotions we have no way to connect
or react to the people around us and without agency we are just an empty vessel at the
service of other forces...waiting for purpose. Thank you for taking the time to watch our
video we invite you to like share and subscribe if you haven't done so yet. I hope you've enjoyed the third installment
into the Loss of Humanity in dystopian movies. Please let us know what other movies we should
add to it next. Today's musical composition was made by Eduardo
Gonzalez and If you like what he does then please check out his information down in the
description. Also, If you wish to support our channel so
we can keep making videos just like this one then please check out our Patreon page. Until next time. 