What's that? You gotta be kidding me?
You come with the same prank cam? Where are you?
Come out now! What do you expect from me with the same prank cam? What the What are you doing there? I am replaced with our member (the manikin) Hello, Yolo people out there!
Yolo Comics! I guess you guys have watched the previous episode - the stealing auto components prank cam If you have not watched it yet, 
please check the previous episode now In the previous episode, we had placed our new member (a manikin) under a car But this time I'm going to be placed under a car Let's see how today's targets 
would react to this prank cam? Let's get started now! The first target is Jin-Joo Kim from "백마TV" - Hello!
- Hi, Ji-Yoo Hello, Yolo Park! - What are you doing? 
- I'm strolling now - I see 
- You guys not going to mee up today? - No, we are not going to but why?
- I'm thinking to prank to Jin-Joo today She seems so excited 
What's the content? You will see what it is later on YouTube
(Yolo doesn't tell her for its security) - Where would Jin-Joo be?
- Let me call Jin-Joo first to see where she is now Please check where Jin-Joo is now and call me back Okay Promise me you are going to smash Jin-Joo
(Don't get her wrong. They are bestie) Don't worry Ji-Yoo calls back to Yolo - Hello, Ji-Yoo!
- Hi! - She is going to go to a gym later 
- A gym? Believe it or not, she does exercise every day Wow..
Do you know what time that would be? I think she will be there soon 
Let me send you the address for the gym Oh really? Thank you - I'm so excited to see what's going to happen to her!
- Thank you so much We are here at the gym where Jin-Joo is doing an exercise (Everything gets ready) Let's get started today's prank cam I'm so excited to see her reaction for today (Waiting for a long time) - Are you all alright?
- I'm good (What makes her so long time...) I got numbness on my feet I think the floor is wet (I think the floor is too cold) (She's finally here) She is here! Hurry up, bro! (What the...?) I know what you guys are doing (You must be Yolo!) Runaway! Hey!! Yolo! (Where is he going?)
Hey! I'm not going to be fooled by you again! Hey! I'm sorry that I can't pretend to be fooled by this 
I'm sorry! I know what this is all about! (Sigh)
Yolo!!!!!!!! (Wow....I've already warned you!)
I'm going to take this manikin! I'm telling you for sure that I'm going to take this one! This is the right size 
I'm going to take this one! Yolo! (Hold!) Yolo!!
I am going to take this one with me! (Freaks out) (You are going to take me with you?) Yolo! I'm telling you!
I'm going to take this with me! (Look at her face) (She's speechless) (Hello Jin-Joo lol) (What the heck) Hold on for a second What is this all about?
(She is speechless) Oh...gosh...I can't believe it...
You jerks.... Oh...gosh - She freaked out, didn't she?
- I was really freak out! - What is this all about?
- I thought this was too obvious I was not sure whether I should pretend to be surprised or not because that was too obvious (She becomes like a nut) Why are you doing this to me all the time? This can't be me! (Please calm down Jin-Joo!) Why do you guys keep coming and doing this to me? I knew about this prank but I was wondering why you guys are going to do the same thing? I really hate when you make your face like this Please hang on for a second I can't be the only victim of this prank cam Please try this to Se-Mi too 
Please! I'm begging you for this! (This is how the next target has been decided) I know I'm not a good person but I would really like to see that Se-Mi also gets freak out Let's see how we can do to Se-Mi I think you guys are genius!
So brilliant! (Yes right!) Anyway, how could you find this place
How could you? - Jo-Yoo gave us the information
- Gosh...I'm going to smash her (This is so funny lol) Success! (How funny she is lol) (She's mimicking Zico) Why everyone is so depressed huh?
(She's mimicking Zico) (She's mimicking Zico) I look pretty mess since I just came out from a gym! No, you are not! I have a schedule later so I've applied some foundations, fortunately. ("Zico" is lecturing Yolos lol) I can't take control over her though she is alone Why do you keep lifting your feet to the air? We've got a call from Jin-Joo a few days later 
We are here for doing a prank cam to Se-Mi You guys have seen this car already Let's call Jin-Joo to come down here for a second (Calling Jin-Joo out) ("Zico" is here again lol) Jin-Joo is so upbeat as usual You can call me anytime if you guys come up with any ideas to prank to Se-Mi I've been expecting to do this for a long time! - Why are you so excited? huh?
- I would like to see her frightened Her eyes become like an eye 
when she really gets freak out I'm over-excited to do this!
I become so upbeat to prank to her Se-Mi has already watched the previous episode 
I've sent her Yolos' video to her But she is going to be fooled by this prank cam even though she knows the previous episode I have been there 
I know what would happen I asked her to park her car at here to help Yolos to set up a prank cam at ease (She was going to park there but I convinced her to park right at here) (Guess she is so excited to prank to her friend) Please bring her out Do I just need to come down here with her? All you need to do later is just to watch this prank cam Okay~
I'm so excited! You will see her eyes become an eye 
Tada~ (Since the size of this car is quite small, there is not enough space down here) (She's coming!) Hurry up!! (She would be fooled by this prank though she has already watched the previous episode) (Again..? lolololol) Alright~
(They are so cute lol) Don't worry~ I'm going to catch ya~ You are here again? I'm not that stupid. Don't they think I've already watched this prank cam before? They are screwed up They are so cute
(She also doesn't know what this is about) What are we supposed to do with this? Should we pretend to get freak out? Don't worry 
You just need to throw this away How about taking this with her and use this for our video for the next Let's bring this and load into our car (Let's load this into our car and 
make Yolo to be shocked) What the!!
(She's like getting electric shocks) (Electric shock dance!) (She gets shocked too lol) Hey girls! Do make a big reaction (Yay! She's like having 
numbnesses on her feet and hands) (What the heck is that it?) (She gets shocked lol) Do make a big reaction once I drag this out (Freaks out) (Jin-Joo is so excited) (Look at their face lol) What the... (She was opening her mouth for a min) (Look at her face lol) I was wondering why this is so heavy.. What is this? Wow...this prank cam has been upgraded from the previous version Hello, I'm a manikin This is another upgraded version 
from the previous one? How far you guys are thinking to go? I was done by them too Are you guys planning 
to come up with an airplane prank cam too? I think Yolo is going to be underneath of an airplane for another prank cams We were thinking to prank to Semi only but 
she wanted to follow too I worried because Ji-Yoo was not on our plan (I'm so mad!) I was done too because you gave them the gym address You jerk! You are not my friend!
(I guess she can't say that to her lol) Everything is acceptable as long as I'm not a victim Let's sing a song to Yolo since it has been a while Please don't 
No thank you Welcome Yolo to join with us~ (Choong-Ho must be happy) I can't be the only victim of this song (I will be disciplined and a good person) Welcome Yolo Park to join with us~ Guess who that is I'm ready (Guess we have seen this person...) Why...? (She's so charmed) In-Na Yoo....? (Wow...she's so charmed...) What would In-Na Yoo react to see this? In-Na Yoo is coming Let's hit the road with my baby car Oh god! (What's wrong with her) What is this all about? I think she does really alike What's wrong with her leg? 