Hi guys, today I'll be revealing Apink Bomi's makeup for Dumhdurum Right now, I ate so much, 
so my face got puffed up I'll put on makeup very quickly and get rid of this look Okay first off, makeup base I'll use a mixture of these 2 items (WAKEMAKE_Water Bonding Foundation)
(Espoir_Pro Tailor Foundation) (Tap tap, tap tap) How is my skin today? Umm.. Good Hmm.. (Worried already there won't be 
enough content for the video haha) Your skin looks a bit red but there's no big problem It seems fine I think you had enough sleep (An explosion of makeup base) As always, today I'll apply a tone up makeup base.. Am I right? On top of the natural looking foundation, I put on something brighter
for the performance It's not too bright though I see, something did look different I made you too white the other day At the concert.. That's how white it could be This must be different 
from the concert makeup then For a music show... It changes depending on the lighting Foundation can also become a bit dry as time passes So I've been using something 
glossy these days Guy, seriously, she has 
the hands of a goddess If I get a huge pimple, (She has pimples) they make it look like nothing happened They hide it very well for me I got surprised before that putting 
on the makeup base takes about 2~30 minutes But after I starting putting 
on makeup myself, it feels weirder if it takes shorter If you only do it really fast,
it won't last long The reason it takes long to put the makeup base
on is that you have to let the skin soak it in You have to make it really stick
to your face to make it last Tap continuously? Yes, you have to make it stick 
like this continuously To put it another way, 
you are feeding the skin The skin must feel tired 
because of it, right? That's right So you need to cleanse 
your face really well all the time (WAKEMAKE_Defining Cover Concealer) With a concealer, I'll conceal more of my face There's not much to do here Wow I love the sound of that (Veridique_Rose Berry Tone Up Cream) To make my neck and face have the same tone, I use the Veridique White Lotion Chorong is the model for it All the members of our group
use this product (Lilybyred_Mood It Palette) If my makeup now changed
from that in %%(Eung Eung), what would it be? For the %%(Eung Eung) makeup, the colors were brighter The colors of the makeup now looks more natural like the color of your lips The colors used before were bold But now the colors are a bit toned down So let me put the decorations But when you put them on, if your overall facial color looks too bold and shiny, it could look a bit old-fashioned So the overall makeup is toned down but the decorations light up the face.. Also, before you use the eye shadow,
using the eyelash curler is nicer, it makes it look neater The reason is if you use the curler
after you finish putting the shadow, you'll have to touch the shadow So if you are new to makeup,
it could look very messy I thought this was the last step Doing this first will feel much more comfortable
for people new to makeup It's much easier to make
your makeup look neat if you do that If you do it as the last step
after putting on the shadow and eyeliner, you'll touch the makeup with your hands Are you putting on the first base
for the eye shadow right now? Yes I'm mixing the toned down colors Wow, you are mixing the 2? I'll try to make just a shadow Since you'll be performing on stage,
a clean makeup could make it feel like something is missing Since the outfit and accessories
are pretty fancy, instead of making the makeup
look too subtle, it may be better to put 
a bit of different shades for creating a more defined look on the stage (Putting in the shades) Let's go slightly bold near the end I'll use this for the double eyelids (Pro YouTuber Bbomi) Using only the dark colors may make your face look too dark and make you look older or it may look too heavy Like this, the shades Wow, it got so different (PRO 8 CHEONGDAM_Liquid Define Liner)
(Etude House_Oh My Line Liquid Eyeliner) I'll fill in the waterlines Since you'll be performing, it may get smudged if you run Using a liquid eyeliner for the waterlines and a different eyeliner on top will reduce smudging A good thing about liquid eyeliners
is that they don't smudge but the bad thing is that 
it looks too bold and as if it reflects light Near the end of the eye-line, it could look a bit unnatural So I'll use it only for the waterline Opening up the front part is important I'll make the front part look more open It'll make your eyes look much bigger (The front part got bigger) The lengths of the eye-lines need to be adjusted 
while your eyes are open So you can make it longer 
little bit at a time Don't do it all at once.. What if it goes all the way to my temple? See it gets too long or too low Check it little by little (Not to my temple) (MAC_Eyeshadow Frost) I know this To prevent smudging, you have to put on eyeshadow It becomes more natural looking It gets more natural looking and dimmer Also, put on some eyelashes But the eyelashes for this season get longer near the tip They make the eyes look longer that way They look as if they fly off near the end I just put them on in a different order (Advanced technique) (Putting on the eyelashes in peace) Wow, it got so different,
there are eyelashes on the right No eyelashes here I made the longest ones go in the back (HR_Lash Queen Sexy Blacks)(Etude House_Oh My Lash Mascara)
Use a clear mascara will make it sleek and pretty Do you put something else
on top of this? If you skip this step, it may get too lumpy and it won't look too neat But if you want to make the lower eyelashes
look more defined, put on the clear mascara, and let it dry (Espoir_Real Eye Palette)
(Will use this color) What's this? This shade will make the eyes look longer Wow (Makeup artist's collection_nail decorations) When you are using decorations, you can see here that 
they have different sizes Right They all have different colors too Right It's must prettier to mix up 
the different types If you use just one kind and same size, it can look old-fashioned and when it reflects light, they will all look the same, 
which is not pretty Small ones shine less and bigger ones shine more So if all different sizes 
shine differently on stage, it will seem much prettier So mix big ones with small ones Same goes with colors These are nail decorations These will be the most special item this season Bbomi's special item I'll put one at the front What's this normally used for..? It's eyelash glue, I see It can be eyelash glue 
or double eyelid glue (Urban Decay_Heavy Metal Glitter Eyeliner) Also, under the eyes, I bet our members like this Glitter and pearl (WAKEMAKE_Defining Cover Concealer) Let me even out.. even out the skin tone If you use too much concealer, your face could look too cakey and dry, so put only a thin layer (Lilybyred_Love Tarot Blusher Palette) The top part looks fancy, so using too many colors may make it too overwhelming Putting on a blush is hard Right? When you put on a blush, it gets much easier
if you use a soft brush Use a soft and big brush That will make it spread out better The biggest mistake people make
is that they use a small brush When it gets concentrated like a small ball,
people have trouble spread it out So it's better to make it big first in the general area Put the part that bulges out 
the most when you smile Also, for people who are new to makeup,
colors like this are.. It is nice? Hard to use Is it because it's dark? It's easier to make mistakes with it Also, if you the makeup base
wasn't done properly, using this will make your face look more red It needs to make you look pretty It shouldn't make you look red So use pastel colors Pink, something like this They would make your face look brighter, more beautiful, and younger (3CA_Slim Velvet Rosebat) We're almost done, right? We are For the lips, instead 
of something really dark, Something like this.. If you want the color to look darker, instead of using a brush, using the lipstick directly on the lips may make it more vivid Instead of something oily, something matte will make you look
more natural and pretty on stage Right, oily lips will make your hair get stuck on your lips 
when you dance I'll make it slightly bigger Over... Like oversized lips (3CA_Slim Velvet Rosebat)
This one, this one, this one (Stila_Heavens Hue Highlighter(Opulence)) As always, the final step is.. to carve out the thin Also, once more for the nose For the nose, you can 
brush the tip like this to make the tip of your nose look higher Put more highlights near the tip The nose looks higher now, right? Also, the mist... It's done Wow, I changed The end I'll get changed soon and let's see each other once again So guys, that's it for this season's Dumhdurum makeup I also wore the outfit, 
do you like it? Okay, so today was the final day
for our Dumhdurum performances If you liked the video, please like the video 
and subscribe to my channel I'm Bbom Bbom Bbom Bbomi 