This episode is made in partnership with Cisco
Global Problem Solvers: The Series. This animated series features a team of teenagers
tackling some of the world’s toughest problems — like how to handle the aftermath of hurricanes. It aims to encourage 4th through 8th-grade
students to think of themselves as global citizens and to develop their problem-solving
skills, and use technology for social good. Click the link in the description to learn
more. In August 1992, Hurricane Andrew flattened
the Bahamas and smashed into the coast of Florida and Louisiana. Some 70,000 acres of trees were destroyed
and more than a quarter-million people were left homeless. Hurricanes like Andrew are outliers, of course,
but every year, similar powerful storms — from Katrina to Sandy — threaten communities
around the world. And they’re especially damaging to people
living in poverty, as they often don’t have the means to abandon everything when a storm’s
brewing, or rebuild in the aftermath. Unfortunately, evidence is mounting that climate
change could be making these storms even more violent. But, what if there was a way to just make
hurricanes... go away? Or, at least make them weaker. It sounds like science fiction, but hurricane
prevention might be more possible than you think. First, though, let’s get our terminology
straight. The scientific term for these powerful storms
is tropical cyclones. Hurricanes are tropical cyclones that happen
in the Atlantic or the East Pacific Oceans. Typhoons are ones that happen in the northern
West Pacific Ocean. Same physics, just different names depending
on what continent they’re hitting. How they form is not something that scientists
totally understand and what we do know isn’t super straightforward. But they’re sure that, by far, the most
important factor is the temperature of the water at the ocean’s surface. Cyclones can only form if that water is above
26.5 degrees Celsius or about 80 degrees Fahrenheit. Since water holds a lot of heat energy, that
warm surface can heat up the air above it. And the simplified version of what happens
from there is this hot air rises. As it rises, it cools and condenses into powerful
thunderclouds. Cooler air from elsewhere in the atmosphere
then rushes in to fill the void left behind. It, too, heats up and the cycle starts once
again—eventually producing a mega-sized storm. In fact, hurricanes and typhoons are sometimes
described as heat engines, since the process can be self-sustaining once it gets going. So, how do we prevent them? Well, to stop an engine, you remove its fuel. So, to stop a cyclone, you take away its warm
water. One way we might do that is marine cloud brightening. Essentially, you fly airplanes above the tropical
areas where hurricanes and typhoons form. Each plane sprays out a mist of seawater behind
it. And those droplets—filled with little bits
of salt—form nuclei for the condensation of new cloud particles that can bulk up lighter,
fluffier clouds. These denser, whiter clouds reflect more sunlight
back towards space. And with less light hitting the ocean’s
surface, there’d be a smaller chance that the water reaches that critical 26.5-degree
temperature needed for cyclone formation. A similar idea, called stratospheric aerosol
injection, takes this principle and expands it to the whole planet. Instead of bulking up clouds one by one, special
high-altitude planes could pump gasses like sulphur dioxide into the upper atmosphere. That’s a gas often released during volcanic
eruptions, and it can be extremely effective at reflecting sunlight. We know this because major eruptions in the
past have had measurable effects on global temperature—and led to temporary reductions
in tropical cyclones. After a 1912 eruption in Alaska, for instance,
the world experienced the fewest hurricanes and typhoons ever recorded. Both of these ideas rely on nature doing our
work for us, though. What if we acted more directly? That’s where bubble curtains could come
into play. A bubble curtain is made by injecting air
bubbles deep underwater. As the bubbles rise to the surface, they form
moving “curtains” which carry with them some of the deeper water. If this was done in the areas where tropical
cyclones often form, they could drag up cooler water to help lower the temperature at the
surface. And again: no warm water, no cyclone. The neat thing is that, unlike marine cloud
brightening or stratospheric aerosol injection, this is already an established technology. In Norway, it’s used in reverse, to bubble
up warm water in the winter to clear ice from fjords. But, even so, it isn’t likely to be put
into practice for hurricane prevention right away. You can lump the obstacles to all three of
these measures into two main categories. The first is cost. Tropical cyclones form over huge regions of
ocean, so we would have to deploy countermeasures in vast quantities. The US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
estimates that to make a bubble curtain that effectively protects the US Gulf Coast, it
would need to extend over something like 850,000 square kilometers. And one study investigating global aerosol
injection assumed we would need to disperse five million metric tons of sulphur dioxide...
per year. That could require tens of thousands of flights
every year for decades just to slow the rate of increase in global temperature, let alone
actually cool things down enough to prevent tropical cyclones. What’s more, even a successful program would
be wasteful because strong cyclones are the exception rather than the norm. I mean, of the around 80 tropical disturbances
that form over the Atlantic Ocean in an average year, only five or so develop into storms
that threaten the US. Maybe the bigger obstacle, though, is the
collateral effects of large-scale action. Like, if we do manage to successfully change
the water temperature across a huge swath of ocean, what does that mean for the ecosystems
there? Given that the people most hard-hit by tropical
cyclones worldwide are also more likely to rely on marine protein sources, we’d want
to be careful about doing anything that could negatively impact aquatic habitats. Similarly, while whitening clouds could meaningfully
reduce the number of hurricanes and typhoons, there’s also a significant chance it would
dramatically affect other ecosystems. For instance, one study noted it’d likely
reduce the amount of rainfall in the Amazon rainforest. And given what climate change is teaching
us about our interconnected world, that kind of trade-off may not be worth making. So, yeah, it might be possible to dissipate
hurricanes. But we’ve got other, safer ways to deal
with the threats they pose which are already at work. Like, we’ve gotten really good at predicting
where these storms will go and bracing for their impacts. That’s already saving lives at a fraction
of the cost. And if we can do an even better job of implementing
forecasting technologies and helping those who are most affected by big storms, then
completely preventing tropical cyclones won’t be necessary. Thanks for watching this episode of SciShow! If you — or any kids in your life — like
thinking about how to solve problems like this, you might be interested in today’s
sponsor. Cisco Global Problem Solvers: The Series aims
to inspire 4th through 8th-grade students to become… well, global problem solvers. It encourages them to think of themselves
as global citizens, developing skills like critical thinking and teamwork. In Season 2, learn how the team uses business
skills and tech to get students back to learning after a hurricane hits the U.S. Gulf Coast. If you want to check it out, we’ve linked
to the series here. And if you’re interested, you can also access
Teacher’s Guides with discussion topics and worksheets by clicking the link in the
description. {♫Outro♫} 