#_One Day in June Today, I'm taking pictures with . The first concept is pureness... I try to give some bright feeling. I'm barely wearing makeup now. A transparent ring~ Transparent earrings~ And my skin is clear, too~ #_Back to Studio (Having a special lecture
from the makeup artist) When you had a dark hairstyle, you used to wear a cool tone makeup
and it gave you a very tough image. Did I look tough? Oh, really...? I think a warm tone fits you well. Yeeun with Cool Tone vs. Yeeun with Warm Tone
(Whichever tone is... Yeeun's Beautiful) You know I'm not good at this kind of thing. Today... I'm wearing a warm tone. Using orange, coral pink,
and other colors mainly, I'm getting my makeup done. I know it all... Maybe? A cool tone (of the skin)
gives you a cool image and a warm tone gives you a warm image... Anyway, that kind of feeling, I think. What is pink, guys? It's a cool tone. Q. Long time in Cheat Key, how have you been?
True, huh? It's been a while. I think the members are doing fine and I'm doing fine, too. Starting from this,
we'll make more videos to show you sooner or later. Since I'm a boring person...
(I'm worried about this video) Suddenly, Worrying about the Video Length You have to film it
even though I don't speak. Since I was little, I was known 
as a boring person. I don't have the gift of gab. (Hehe) #_The Real Shooting Begins I couldn't take my own pictures at all. Until now, I love this styling best. Finishing Yeeun's First Shooting with Allure!
(We could see Yeeun's various images) [Thank you] (Come on)   (Come on) To celebrate the shooting,
I'll give you the rings as a gift.  If you want these rings, get permission from my stylist manager. Joking   Joking While shooting with 
for the first time, I had a very meaningful and fun day. Now, I'm going to eat tteokbokki It was fun! When would I ever do this・ Since it was so unique, it's over before I got used to it. Now, I'm going home... It was great fun to shoot the pictorial today. Everybody, good night~ It's going to rain heavily
and I love it. Bye bye~ EPILOGUE
Everybody's Decibel #_Going Back to the Makeup Time... (One of the staff members)
I'm here in case you're bored. I have no company to talk with. You feel pressure to speak first, huh? Usually, when we come together,
it's not that silent like now. We make a lot of noise・ Hullabaloos~ Very Noisy Decibel... I feel lonely... Just Like That, Yeeun Was a Bit Lonely 