Today’s OBS Studio course episode, we’re
doing another discussion style video. Let’s talk about some of the ways you can
set up a more dynamic live stream that engages the audience a bit more than the typical gameplay
and webcam setup. This is going to be pretty hypothetical and
require some creative thinking on your part in order for you to get the most out of it. I’m EposVox, here to make tech easier and
more fun, and welcome back to my OBS Studio tutorial course. I have many, many more videos on the software
in the playlist linked in the description. Check that before asking questions, and check
the introduction video to learn how this course works, if you get confused. Setting up a facecam overtop your gameplay
footage is a great start to connecting with your audience and making a great-looking live
stream. But it doesn’t have to stop there; a basic
facecam cam is just the beginning of what you can do. We’re mainly going to talk about some realistic
ideas, and I will show you some of what I have implemented. Those who are super MLG pro at a specific
game - first person shooters, RTS games, and so on - implementing a keyboard cam, mousecam,
or controller cam might be a great idea. This is super easy to set up - just an extra
camera mounted and pointed at your controlling device. This can be a webcam via USB or a camcorder
or DSLR with an HDMI feed running to a capture card. And yes, you can use multiple capture cards
in one system with OBS Studio. You can use a LOT. This is how professional broadcasts work. Not only that, but you can get some capture
cards with multiple inputs. Let that sink in if you’ve seen that as
a roadblock previously. If you have multiple computer monitors and
use them for a specific workflow, you can add them all to OBS and use a keypad with
macros or an automatic scene switcher to switch between them. Or you can go a step further and add webcams
on top of each so that you always have a facecam ready. Side-cams are pretty obnoxious, IMO. My live streaming setup has 3 different cameras:
My main webcam mounted on my primary monitor (which is the Logitech BRIO 4K running at
1080p60), the Logitech C922 mounted on my side monitor where I keep my Premiere Pro
panels for editing live streams, and then I have a camera on a tripod behind my third
screen over on the left. I usually use this for my console gaming live
streams and the camcorder feeds it video via HDMI to another capture card. Easy to set up and makes the live streaming
experience a lot more dynamic and interesting to the viewer. If you’re not super picky about privacy
and have an interesting setup, you can mount another camera - such as a wireless security
camera streaming over the network, or just a webcam with a really long USB cable ran
- on a wide angle further back from your setup to show off during your “be right back”
scenes. Add a little blur and text overtop and you
have a much more interesting scene than just a “BRB” slide. And viewers get to see behind the scenes,
which helps make them feel more involved. You can utilize complex layout graphics or
websites like TippeeeStream to make a more visually-appealing stream with extra layouts,
graphics, Twitch Chat overlaid, views side-by-side, and so on. You can have multiple people streaming in
one location, too! Run both game systems or PCs into capture
cards to the streaming machine, set up facecams for both people, and switch between the scenes. Think about how major eSports events are set
up and scale that down to your needs. You can set up an audio mixer to feed in audio
from multiple sources - such as multiple mics, your game system, a secondary computer for
music playback, and so on. See my audio setup if you want an example. Some people even have separate game feeds
for when they’re in-between matches of their main game. For example, switching to a view of a mobile
phone game they’re playing while waiting for lobbies to load and switch in a multiplayer
competitive game or something. These are just a few ideas towards the unlimited
possibilities you can achieve with scenes and interactivity in OBS Studio. You just have to be creative and have patience,
and whatever ideas you have can be achievable. I hope this episode of my OBS Studio tutorial
course has been helpful for you. If it was, drop-kick that like button and
subscribe for awesome tech videos. If you like game streaming, come follow me
on Twitch and drop a message in chat. Until next time, I’m EposVox, Happy Streaming! Thanks for watching this episode of my OBS
Studio tutorial course. More videos like this and a full master class
are linked in the playlist in the video description. Click to learn more. Also consider joining us on Patreon to help
keep tech education free. Go to Patreon.com/eposvox to sign up. 