This has been, hands down the worst Work trip I've ever been on. I lost my luggage We lost all the footage from a previous trip. So instead of going home I am actually going to be going to Ottawa after this, and then we tried to stream our Galaxy Note 9 coverage from here at unpacked 2018 for 45 minutes before finally giving up But at least there's a bright spot and the bright spot. Is that the Galaxy Note 9 May very well be the sexiest phone we have ever seen In fact, not just may very well be look if I pull out the black one I think you've got a perfect reflection of Brandon in there making this officially the sexiest phone ever Right, right thumbs up for Brandon, sexy, please We're gonna tell you all about it after this message from PIA. ♪Intro Music♪ So I had a whole bunch of plans You know best laid plans of mice and men we were gonna do the whole thing live I had this I had this whole joke where I was gonna do like our whole our old intro and I was gonna I was Gonna hold it up for for the camera. Oh look. Look, it's Blair's tech tips intro lol. You know what we're gonna do it anyway Watch you might not know not NCIX ignore. The man behind the curtain NCIX has nothing to do with - tech tips anymore *Very Deep Breath* Okay So the whole keynote started with a lot of very bold claims and grandiose messaging seek a life fulfilled with purpose and it Motivated to do more and the kinds of people who they imagine a no customer would be but of course All that does is set very high expectations for someone like me of this device and they've actually managed to do an incredible job of living up to Most of it so specs run down. It's got a six point four inch display And the first thing I noticed about it once I got my hands on it was that it's actually got a slightly By the look of things slightly wider bezel than the previous s9 plus and I actually am fully supportive of this change because I do find that every so occasionally I'll have difficulty pressing something Especially when I'm reaching across the screen and I end up interfering with my button presses when I'm trying to type It's got a 10 nanometer octa-core processor this was actually very telling one of the most interesting moments of the keynote for me was at the very end when their smartphone division head I forget what his actual exact title is and something along the lines of every year We work to make the note the most powerful most amazing smartphone ever. This is not easier every year frankly speaking And then he kind of laughed and it unlike the entire rest of the presentation really sounded genuine and he goes This not easy And it really is a great point because you can't just keep stuffing better and better specs into a phone every time So it's got an octa-core processor which depending on which region you're in might actually mean something different So I've got my review device here Which I have already started to load apps on and of course the first thing was CPU said so it's going to be some combination of dual sourced Snapdragon 845 processors and some variant of Exynos probably the same thing from the s9 and the s9 plus you can see that the Snapdragon is the one that turbos up to 2.8 and I think the other one maxes out at 2.7 So they're even listing separate frequencies for the different products depending on which capacity you get. I believe these are all 128 gig versions you'll get either 6 or 8 gigs of ram. They're all Ip68 watcher and dust resistant. I refuse to call it waterproof They've all got fast wireless charging four thousand milliamp hour battery is this is another huge change I was not that impressed with the note eight and one of the things that I complained about was That I felt like Samsung was being really conservative with the battery capacity of it on the heels of the note 7 fire fiasco Gone, is that strategy? So they've brought their multi-point battery inspection process to a higher capacity Four thousand milliamp hour. That is a Great their messaging. It has an all-day battery and I actually Believe it Physically, there's not gonna be a lot of surprises here. Actually, really love the color choices this year So they've got this they're calling it copper to me. It's more of like a bronzy type color really like this one They've got purple making a return they're calling it lilac or something along those lines I like the s9 plus purple a little bit better But this one's pretty Schmeck c2 they've got a blue and then of course they've got a more traditional black and most of them have matching s-pen colors But the blue one gets this really bold yellow color One of the things that stood out to me about all the color choices this year Is that Samsung he really has their own identity for colors? Now they have not piggybacked on anything that Apple is doing there's no gold. There's no red Everything here is uniquely Samsung one of the other big physical changes is the movement of the fingerprint sensor So we've got tons of different options for biometric security once again fingerprint sensor at the back Facial reader in the forward-facing camera as well as their iris scanner and these two you can put together for what they're calling intelligent scan They spent a lot more time talking about their vast ecosystem of other products including mentioning things like refrigerators As they work towards sort of building a more connected world One of the more connected things that I saw demoed on stage was decks. So decks has gone from being this sort of weird feature that doesn't make a ton of sense to me because you have to buy this extra accessory to something that looks very Seamless. So now all you need is a USB type-c to HDMI adapter and Boom you plug that into a display and presumably you can connect a keyboard and mouse via bluetooth, though They didn't demo that they demoed using the note 9 as a touchpad That's it that's all it takes to get a desktop experience now Android still isn't a great desktop or laptop experience this was particularly clear when Razer was showing off their concept for a phone that kind of Slotted into a laptop shell but with some work and it does seem like we're going the right direction That could be a great way to take your work with you on the go Of course one of the big things they were talking about. Yes. Yes this is exciting was how much work you can take with you on the gore how much stuff so with the 512 gig Which is going to be 1249 us and then it's $9.99. Oops. That's the wrong thing $9.99 us for the 128 gig version They are saying that you can have up to a hundred Whoo, there it goes. You can have up to one terabyte of capacity and a phone Well, I say why wait because Samsung was saying well, you know, you got to wait for Samsung's 512 gig microSD, not me. I Have the integral 128 gig microSD, so we're gonna do it first just for lols. I Actually don't even know if this is a 512 gig phone It's got a Seminole. Yes You saw it here first my friends that is assuming that I can get this in here 512 gigs of microSD going into a note 9 I can't remember to take that with me that tastes like $400 Tap here to transfer media files boom just like that it comes up Absolutely, gorgeous get more space. Yeah, right as if I need it last thing I really want to spend some time on is the s-pen the s-pen is something that I'd always looked at as a really cool feature that I'm not likely to use but that all changes this time so somehow without Changing the form factor at least to my eye. I don't have a no date on me today. They have managed to cram wireless charging Bluetooth and a battery into this thing. So now you can use it as remote capture for taking selfies You can use it to advance a PowerPoint presentation and they are even opening up the SDK. I think very soon They didn't actually give a timeline on it but they're gonna make the SDK available to everyone so it'll be up to app developers how they want to use this and I'm assuming it was by clicking and double-clicking, but they were even able to go forward and backward within PowerPoint that is absolutely Fantastic, it charges it a minute lasts for 90 minutes and still has all the regular S Pen functionality that you would expect Passively without the battery on board being charged So this is a potential game-changer for someone who is a reluctant S Pen or like me the speakers are stereo now So that's fantastic and they are AKG but it always becomes a little bit less meaningful when someone like Samsung says yeah They're akj speakers, but then they they ran out and they acquired Harman which is the parent company of AKG last year so it probably wasn't that hard to get the certification and I think that's pretty much it. They didn't say much about performance specifically Other than that, it's got a water carbon cooling system, which is probably fancy branding for a heat pipe and oh Yeah, right. They announced the Galaxy watch which I wasn't going to review But now I feel like I really need to get my hands on this thing is absolutely gorgeous It's got LTE connectivity Just like Apple's latest generation watch they say it lasts for three days on battery, which is a huge boon for someone like me Who's been whining about watches not having a either always-on displays or be? Good batteries since they pretty much showed up on the market So let me know in the comments below if you'd like to see a dedicated video on that also they did a Bixby smart speaker, which Sure. Let me know if you want to see that too. So thanks for putting up with our very late coverage here guys We really wanted to bring this to you live, but we tried and tried and tried and I'm only human and I'm sorry So thanks for watching guys, like dislike do whatever it is that you feel is right. Leave a comment Don't forget to subscribe so you don't miss any of our videos and I'm screwing up my standard outro We have a merch store linked in the video description. It doesn't have shirts like this. I lost my luggage So this is the same shirt that I put on for travel. It's really comfortable. That's why I was wearing it I wanted a line of tech tips shirt I'm broken. I'm a broken man. I Say nice now 