Hi, this is Alex, from MinuteEarth. Lyme disease is an illness of the modern age. Even though it has affected humans for thousands
of years, that was at such low levels that Lyme remained unnamed by science until 1976,
when dozens of people in Lyme, Connecticut all came down with a distinctive target-shaped
rash, fevers, and unusual arthritic symptoms, and doctors discovered that they all had a
tick-borne disease caused by the Borrelia bacteria. Since then, Lyme disease has had an astronomical
rise. Hundreds of thousands of people around the
world now get infected every year. And that’s because of another small creature:
the mouse. Ticks like to feed on the blood of mice and
other small mammals, but some hosts, like opossums and squirrels, gobble up most of
the blood-suckers - including those carrying the Borrelia bacteria - so quickly that they
rarely get infected, even when the tick is a carrier. Mice, on the other hand, aren’t as effective
at grooming, so they remove only half of their ticks, and as many as 90% of mice end up carrying
the bacteria in their bloodstream. This means that when a tick that’s not yet
a carrier bites a mouse, it’s super likely to pick up the bacteria, which it can then
pass on to you. And over the past few decades, we’ve changed
the world in ways that have made mice more common than they used to be. Mice thrive in today’s fragmented landscape
of woods, farm fields, and suburbs. We’ve killed off many of their predators,
too, allowing mouse numbers to boom. Plus, both mice and ticks are spreading further
north today because climate change has warmed the winters that previously kept them in check. All of this has caused the number of infected
mice, and therefore the number of infected ticks, to grow in places like Canada, China,
and the Czech Republic, as well as back in Connecticut - leading to a huge ... uptick
in lyme disease. So … um… what are we doing about all this? Well, doctors are starting to identify Lyme
Disease symptoms more quickly so they can treat patients faster. And scientists and foresters are focusing
their attention on trying to control both ticks - through the use of chemicals - and
mice - by managing forests to promote predators. It’s unclear yet whether these efforts will
be successful, but if they are, mice, ticks and Borellia bacteria will garner a lot less
of the lymelight. 