(gasps) - Oh! - Whoa, ho! It's finally ready! You know I went through quite a few supers to get it worthy to fight you. Sure, it was difficult, but you are worth it. - Heroes are only as
good as their villains. This is a rather cliched phrase you've no doubt heard before, but there is an element of truth there. If the villain in a story is weak, then, it wouldn't be that impressive when we see the hero inevitably take them down. A challenging villain
often marks the final obstacle that the hero must overcome, and if that ultimate
challenge is easily beatable then the triumph is rendered
effectively meaningless. If anyone can defeat the villain, then why does it matter
that this guy did it. Well, what did you gain
from this victory, Thor? Just nothing? All right, it's cool. But a lot of the time the
villains are their own downfall. They could be holding all of the cards, ready to savor their victory
against the meddling hero only to touch something
they're not supposed to, or get distracted, or just purposefully
stop and explain their malicious plot which might
unveil a clue or flaw that the hero can exploit. - You brought the monster. - So, Banner. That's your play. - What? - Why do villains do this? Why with the monologues? It's become such a trope
for evildoers to refrain from killing the hero
in favor of detailing their sinister plans
that it's been lampooned in the genre that,
arguably, popularized it. Superhero stories. For example, Age of Ultron had a line poking fun at the idea. - What's the vibranium for? - I'm glad you asked that because I wanted to take this time
to explain my evil plan. - Years before that, readers
saw a similar critique in the superhero
deconstructing graphic novel, Watchmen, and its move adaptation. - I'm not a comic book villain. Do you seriously think I'd
explain my master stroke to you if there were even
the slightest possibility you could effect the outcome? - But there is, perhaps,
no greater mocking of this staple of
supervillainy than in Pixar's The Incredibles. If you've never seen the film, first of all, do that. Go watch it! Today, if possible. It's really good. But, okay, just to get
you through this video, think of The Incredibles
as the Fantastic Four meets Watchmen. Like the FF, The Incredibles
features a super family of 1960s America
comprised of a strong guy, a stretchy person, an invisible girl, and-- - The Dash likes. - [Scott] Well, they're
both blond, I guess. Oh, and there's Jack Jack. He's great. (giggles) The story is about superheroes
coming out of retirement to fight a new threat in a world that doesn't want anything to do with heroes. Underneath the film's sleek
comic book iconography, the Parrs are just a
dysfunctional family of supers who always seem to be on
the brink of crumbling under the pressure to be normal. - It's perfectly normal for you-- - Normal? What do you know about normal? What does anyone in this
family know about normal?! - Now, wait a minute, young lady. - We act normal, Mom, I wanna be normal! - [Scott] Their world views, and their very lives for that matter, are tested by the villainous, Syndrome. (laughs) Syndrome's dramatic entrance
halfway through the film sparks a classic setup. The villain has captured the hero. His nemesis is cornered. So, naturally, he just can't resist delivering a grand speech. As he drones on, Syndrome
becomes distracted in his own delivery, giving Mr. Incredible an opportunity to recuperate and retaliate. - You sly dog! You got me monologuing. I can't believe it. - The message here is clear. Villainous monologues are
stupid and counterproductive. (clears his throat) But here's the thing, this scene actually demonstrates the exact opposite. In fact, this exchange shows precisely why super villain monologues
are genuinely brilliant narrative devices. Let's break down this
one-sided conversation to see why this seemingly
indefensible trope in superhero storytelling
is actually genius. Yeah, that's right I'm
about to monologue at you about why I think monologues are great. Shut up, we're doing this. - [Bob] Well, what are you waiting for? - I don't know. Something amazing, I guess. - Oh, we'll get to some
amazing analysis, son. But in the spirit of
self-aggrandizing antagonists, verbose villains, and
speechifying scoundrels, here's an appropriately lengthy history of supervillain monologues in fiction. Follow me, you wonderful nerds to learn town. The monologue as a narrative
device has been around pretty much since the
birth of theater itself. Referring to a long-winded
speech delivered by one character, usually to another, but for some reason
villains seem especially prone to monologue in superhero stories. - It's the unspoken truth of humanity, that you crave subjugation. The bright lure of freedom diminishes your life's joy
in a mad scramble for power. - There are eight million
people in this city. And those teeming masses
exist for the sole purpose of lifting the few exceptional
people onto their shoulders. - To them you're just a freak like me. They need you right now, but when they don't they'll cast you out like a leper. - The examples are figuratively endless. And it's clear that The
Incredibles means to critique this evil speech trope associated
with comic book villains, but how did this trope get started at all? Well, if I wanted to be
unnecessarily detailed as I hold you hostage
from being able to click away from this video. Stop it! I would start with this guy. This is the ancient Greek poet, Simonides. Before him, ancient poets didn't directly charge money for their individual works. They relied on a system on patronage afforded by rulers and
wealthy benefactors. A system that's still,
kind of, around today. Support me on Patreon! But all that started to
change with Simonides who said screw that, I want money. Simonides insisted that if
someone commissions a poem, they need to pay the poet
directly for their work. And flash forward a couple thousand years and you can see the result
of that shifting mindset in something like pulp magazines. These publications became synonymous with cheap, often unremarkable,
exploitation fiction. Tales that weren't trying to be the next great American novel, but were instead just an afternoon of frankly, lurid entertainment. They were deliberately designed to be a cheap downmarket product. Being printed on low-cost,
untrimmed, wood pulp paper, hence the name. But another way the publishers cut costs was to pay the writers a low wage based not on the quality of
their words, but the quantity. This system may have been
a catalyst for villainous monologues in the tales of
Doc Savage, or The Shadow. As author Peter Coogan writes in Superhero: The Secret
Origin of a Genre, quote, "Writers working
for a few cents a word "had a great incentive to fill pages "with villain speechifying," end quote. You can observe a similar
trend in old serials where an evil doctor might drone on and on about their master plan just so the story would be able to fill a dozen episodes. As pulp magazines were
effectively the predecessors of the modern comic book, you would think that this
practice of self-aggrandizing evildoers would carry over from the pulps to the superhero comics,
but they actually didn't. At least, not immediately. Early superhero comics didn't
have too many monologuey villains not because they didn't want to but because they were
structured differently during the birth of the industry. You can pick up an average comic today and expect one story from cover to cover, usually around 20 pages or so. But really you typically
only get one piece of the story that spans
over multiple issues. Comics back in the early days, however, were paced quite differently. If we look all the way
back at Action Comics #1, which launched the
superhero comic book boom with the debut of, ah
forgot this guy's name, mister, Mr. Action? It'll come to me. The comic book itself
was over 60 pages long, but it wasn't all dedicated
to the man in the red trunks. His story was only one of nine
stuffed into this comic book. So, even though the actual
magazine was lengthier than the average comic
that you would buy today each individual story inside was shorter, they could range anywhere
between four pages, like Sticky Mitt Stimson, or
the Adventures of Marco Polo, all the way up to 10 to
12 pages like Tex Thomson, Zatara, or blue red S guy? And most of these stories regardless of how few pages they were allotted had to tell a complete
tale from start to finish. Readers weren't expected to pick up each following issue to find out
what happened to Superman. Superman! That's what his name... Sorry, I just needed
a way to end that bit. The point is that most
comic stories were short and had to wrap up the
narrative in one go. There just weren't enough pages to spare for extravagant speeches
by the story's antagonist, so supervillain monologues
weren't much of a thing. And since we're on the
subject of Superman right now, let's take a look at Lex Luthor, one of the most iconic comic
book villains in existence. He is nothing if not arrogantly verbose. A poster child for villainous monologues in just about every appearance across comics, cartoons, and movies. And yet, his first appearance
in Action Comics #23 gave him all of two panels
at the end of the issue to explain his evil plan. That is hardly a monologue
by today's standards, but writers and artists just
didn't have the real estate to both tell a complete
story from start to finish, and have a character deliver
a long- winded speech. That all changed as comic
books left the Golden Age and moved into the Silver Age. By the way, if you're
confused at all about the different ages of comics, I made a video about
them a couple years ago that might be worth a look. All you really need to know for this video is that the Silver Age led to comic books adopting the format that
we're used to today. Typically moving away
from lengthy anthologies towards comics that have
fewer pages overall, but with nearly all of
those pages dedicated to one piece of a larger ongoing story. This format afforded writers the ability to stuff each issue
with as few, or as many, words as they wanted. And if your name was Stan Lee, you exploited this format to show off your excessive use of language. Villains like Doctor Doom, Red Skull, Mysterio, and many, many more, all exercised their true powers of unrestrained lavish language. In addition to its function as a way for Stan to make a pretentious display of his vocabulary, and
feel like he's contributing while artists like Jack
Kirby and Steve Ditko do all the real work, it served a practical
purpose in the story as well. Because one superhero
adventure could be split up across multiple issues of a comic series a supervillain monologue
could serve as a useful tool to recap the plot, emphasize essential details that the readers may have missed, or just generally catch the
audience up before the climax. And here lies the evil monologue's most practical narrative use, filling in any crucial gaps in knowledge. If we look at The Incredibles, which you'll recall is what this video is supposed to be about, we see that immediately upon
capturing Mr. Incredible Syndrome wastes no time
revealing his secret identity, and recapping the series
of events that let him to becoming a genius
billionaire supervillain. - That's the way it works. Turns out there are a lot of people, whole countries who want respect, and they will pay through
the nose to get it. How do you think I got rich? I invented weapons. And now, I have a weapon
that only I can defeat. - Remember The Incredibles
opens in the late 1940s to establish a world
filled with superheroes, but after lawsuits and
government initiatives begin to crackdown on supers, the setting jumps ahead 15 years to 1962. A lot has happened in that time period that we, as the audience, have missed. Syndrome's grand speech
towards Mr. Incredible sheds light on a chunk of the world that the story skipped out on. As a kid, Buddy Pine was Mr.
Incredible's biggest fan. He desperately wanted
to become the sidekick to his favorite hero. He wanted to fight crime as Incrediboy, but Mr. Incredible pushed him away. He rejected Buddy. This event sparked Buddy's
transformation into Syndrome. Equally as important,
it paints the villain in a more sympathetic light. The reason Syndrome recaps his backstory isn't just because he wants to make sure everyone's on the same page, he wants to gain sympathy
from Mr. Incredible. And maybe some from us while he's at it. Sure, not all of us can relate to wealthy evil geniuses like Syndrome,
or Luthor, or Kingpin even, but a well-crafted monologue
can be an excellent tool for making unapproachable masterminds seem more human. In Syndrome's case, we
see that he didn't become a megalomaniac just for the sake of it. Buddy is the way that he is because he felt betrayed by the person
he looked up to the most. - All I wanted was to help you. I only wanted to help, and what did you say to me? - Fly home, Buddy, I work alone. - It tore me apart, but I learned an important lesson. You can't count on anyone, especially your heroes. - Even though Buddy was
rejected by his hero 15 years ago, it's clear that he still
respects Mr. Incredible. He doesn't just kill
off his rival quickly. To Syndrome defeating Mr.
Incredible is personal. It's a victory to savor. You know how a lot of
critiques of evil monologues are like why don't the villains just kill the hero instead of talking? - I mean one more jolt with this death ray and I'm an epitaph. Somehow, I managed to
find cover and what does Baron Von Ruckless do? - He starts monologuing. - He starts monologuing. He starts like this prepared speech about how feeble I am compared to him, how inevitable my defeat is. How the world will soon be his. Yadda yadda yadda. - [Bob] Yammering
- Yammering. I mean the guy has me on a
platter and he won't shut up. - Yeah, but... This is why. Yes, villains could just
quickly kill the heroes in these circumstances, but aside from the fact that
not all villains are murderous. Hashtag not all villains. The ones who are respect the hero too much to just swiftly kill them
in silence, and move on. Syndrome wants Mr.
Incredible to understand him. He opens up about his
past and his master plan because he believes his
former hero is worthy enough to hear it. We don't know if Syndrome
delivered similar speeches before he killed off the other heroes like Gazerbeam, or
Blazestone, or Downburst, but I'd wager that he didn't. Because they weren't nearly as important or formative to his life
as Mr. Incredible was. Monologuing is about respect. - I was wrong to treat you that way. I'm sorry. - See, now you respect
me because I'm a threat. - [Scott] It's made evident
that Buddy never stopped holding Mr. Incredible
in such high regard. He tries to project an air of confidence as he gloats about how
rich and smart he is, but you can catch his insecurity slipping with two little lines at
the end of his monologue. - Am I good enough now?! Who's super now?! - [Scott] This exchange
also highlights the need for a villain to feel
superior to their nemesis. The evildoer already believes
that they are smarter and more powerful than the hero, and that hubris is validated the moment they've backed their
rival into a seemingly inescapable corner. I mean, what villain could
resist the tantalizing opportunity to gloat, to bask
in their evident superiority. To finally say, "I knew it! "I'm better than you,
and I just proved it." - You mean you killed
off real heroes so that you could pretend to be one?! - Oh, I'm real. Real enough to defeat you! And I did it without your precious gifts, your oh so special powers. - [Scott] And I'm gonna pause right here because this scene,
Syndrome's second monologue, explores the final function
of villainous verbosity, theatrics. As we discussed at the
beginning of this video, monologues find their home in the theater, so it only makes sense
that Syndrome emphasizes how vital theatricality
is to his master plan. - Oh come on, you gotta
admit this is cool. Just like the movie. The robot will emerge dramatically, do some damage, throw in some screaming people, and just when all hope his lost, Syndrome will save the day! I'll be a bigger hero than you ever were. I'll give them heroics. I'll give them the most
spectacular heroics anyone's ever seen. - Many villains, especially
those in superhero stories, tend to add artistic theatrical
elements to their crimes. Joker disguising hostages
as henchmen and vice versa while conducting an
explosive social experiment on the citizens of Gotham. Green Goblin setting up a
game which aimed to force Spider-Man to decide between
saving a bunch of random kids or whoever this lady is. I think it's his sister. Or Lex Luthor who always has great plans and definitely isn't a buffoon in every movie adaptation. He's really smart, guys, I promise. Coogan describes these villains as, quote, "Impresarios, putting on a
show of sorts, and the heroes "who oppose them are their
audience, " end quote. And a captive audience at that. The Incredibles captures this idea in one of my favorite moments of the film. You can see Syndrome snap into
an overly dramatic delivery, and then break character for, a moment, after he realizes he's lost his audience. - I'm Syndrome. Your nemesis and Oh brilliant. It shows that Syndrome is,
on some level at least, aware that he's putting on a performance. Conscious of the theatrics
inherent in being a supervillain, and definitely aware of the
specific trope of monologuing. - You sly dog! You got me monologuing. I can't believe it. - I know that to some
of you there's nothing that I could say that would
make villainous monologues seem less silly or illogical, but I think that's kind of the point. In old school superhero comics the heroes were characters with firm rational beliefs about good and evil. There were no morally complex gray areas. A criminal breaks the law,
the hero stops them, right? In this way, superheroes
in these early stories were often a place where
the audience was meant to find a sense of stability. You know, the world is a mess, but through the hero we can declutter the chaos and gain a feeling of pure, rational understanding. That's part of what makes them super. Your average person is,
rarely, as reasonable, and villains, naturally, are less so. They're often written to
express some kind of mania which could, honestly, be
an entire video itself. But more to the point is something that I've mentioned before in my video about the philosophy of Thanos, but I do think that it's
worth repeating here. Just because a character's
mindset is inconsistent or irrational doesn't inherently
make them poorly written. If adequately explored,
these illogical facets can make characters well-rounded
and more believable. So, yeah villains stopping
in their tracks to monologue at heroes instead of just
killing them outright might seem irrational,
but the next time that you see it pop up in a film or a TV show, take a second to analyze what the speech is accomplishing in the narrative, because the truth is
that this trope allows us to see hidden depths of
the villain's personality. To empathize with their
struggles and motivations, and to understand the
genuine respect they have for the hero as a worthy foe. And I guess I will
continue to unironically defend supervillain monologues because I don't think they're silly. I think they're actually
kind of incredible. (laughs) How's that for some forced word play. - That was totally wicked! - Now, I will permit you to speak. What do you think of
supervillain monologues? Do you think they're useful
and interesting like I do? Or are you wrong? Let me know your thoughts in the comments or on Twitter @nerdsync, especially if you have a
favorite evil monologue. I'd love to know what it is. And as always I want to
give my genuine thanks to our patrons who support
these videos that we make. This is all of their names. They're all great, but
I especially wanna thank Cristoffer Lange, Everett
Parrott, and Sonali Manka. If you wanna support our
videos and get your name here on this ever-growing
wall of beautiful people, head on over to Patreon.com/NerdSync. Link in the description. Click or tap right here for
another one of our videos that YouTube's mysterious algorithm thinks you, personally, will enjoy. Let's test it out. And if you're feeling
exceptionally wild, you madman, hit that big sexy subscribe button. Thanks for watching, my name is Scott, reminding you to read between the panels and grow smarter through comics. See ya. 