Nam joo What are you doing? Please say hello once - This is Bo mi of Bbom Bbom Bbom
- As expected Nam joo, I'll give you this camera later I look forward to your
good work today as well (uh.. that is...) (lol) Everyone, please show us
a lot of love for Dumhdurum Please show us a lot of love for
Bbom Bbom Bbom as well As expected - Thank you
- What's the payment for my appearance? ...This, this coffee I paid for it though? (shameless) I'll show you Cho rong
who's making herself look cool The look of Cho rong's transformation - Wow
- I'm making myself look cool Hey, you...! Outfit! Wow, it's shining! I'm making myself look cool now But you used to like a modest look though But why did you... - But why did you become so fancy?
- What are you saying, Cho rong was never modest Cho rong is the richest What are you talking about As expected, she's a songwriter I always buy food for you guys Unnie, what are you saying,
we always pay half the amount each What do you mean by, paying half the amount Go now (she became cold all of a sudden lol) Urgh, yes Aigo, it's finally done now Haa... Ah.. it's so tiring Okay, the pre-recording
is finished now, guys Wow, I'm out of breath now (right before she'd faint) Okay guys, now I'll go to Inkigayo convenience store Since I didn't have a single meal today I'm gonna have something to eat Ah, I'm so starving now.. I just heard now that the members got here earlier I'm so full You're eating it so well, huh? I think I should just eat it
like a home-made food - This is for Youtube, can I show the place here?
- Yes yes This is Inkigayo convenience store Although it's very small,
everything is here This is a magic lamp, you know? I'll just make this
soybean paste soup and.. Thank you yeah yeah Ah, the quail eggs.. Those quail eggs as well.. Okay Okay, I'm done Ah.. a person should eat something at least Have you tried this one? No, is this only available here as well? I mean, I couldn't find this anywhere else This is a peach, a peach I guess it comes out
like Bong Bong, you know? (would she like its taste?) Umm (she doesn't like its taste)
Well, it's not your taste though Okay, here it came,
my meal, my meal Okay, I ordered like this, everyone Recently, I wanted to have
a home-made meal so bad Can I donate two dumplings? Wow The angel Eun ji gave me two dumplings - I'll give you the meat and beef rib dumplings also
- Wow I was served with the food Ha young, could you peel this off? Okay then, I'll also shoot you
eating this one (lol) Although I'm not eating it Ah, it's really funny This is how I supposed to do No, it's been a really long time for me Ah, it's hot How should I do it, geez (lol) Hey, my Youtube video only
shows you moving back and forth Okay, so I invited three Youtubers of Apink like this Yes, hello Hello - Eun ji, are you leaving?
- Yes Ah then, I should change the angle again - Hey.. this one..
- Unnie, show that side once as well I think that this is just too much Huh? Because it's so salty, isn't it? (lol)
For viewers of Habbang and Bbom Bbom Bbom if you want to see another angle,
just go visit each channel.. Hoit (ahahaha) Ha young, what are you doing from the back? Just stay still please (uhuhuhu) Wow This seems like a baby one, right? (suspicious)
It's way better than that from a pork soup restaurant - Without rice?
- Yes, I could just drink this one only She said she eats it without rice This tastes like.. that one a little The cafeteria food (the taste of a cafeteria food) Bo mi, you're exaggerating
on the show a little bit, huh? - No
- This is from a pork soup restaurant? Are you serious? - How much..
- Are you gonna do this show with your lie? You know how hard they make it
by boiling since the nighttime I know Those madams who boil it for twelve hours No, this one also has a soybean taste - Today, it's our 9th anniversary
- We had a nice meal Yes, we had a nice meal Suddenly, I get to say goodbye? (lol) (Bo mi is reading others) Ah, I'm drooling.. Our staffs had written this Congratulations, today is the
9th anniversary You got 9 years old, let's be
together forever, we love you forever Would you like to
receive celebration from our singers? Why do we receive celebration? She's funny Why the singers give us celebration though They could do it We could hang it here,
and ask them to write on it We're gonna receive celebration from our colleagues Bo mi, don't do it.. (she's trying to stop her with her eyes) Don't do it Why! Let's do that when
it's our 10th anniversary Why do we do it,
it's only our 9th anniversary.. Then, I guess I should do it
with Bbom Bbom Bbom Just do it with Bbom Bbom Bbom instead The 2nd anniversary of Bbom Bbom Bbom? Those who know Bbom Bbom Bbom, please put stickers on it (for subscribers of 'Bbom Bbom Bbom',
please put stickers on it) Only just about two of it!
Since it's embarrassing It's done (bright) Young Tak came here to say hi Hello It's real, for real Wow Yes (thank you) The name for our fans is Bbosong If you could do this
'it's real, for real, Bbosong' just once... It's real, for real You're quite Bbosong Wow (quite amazing) Bo mi really likes it I'll come and see you often Thank you - Thank you
- Thank you I'll get going now I'll go to do a live broadcast interview Our Apink's second performance is finished A while ago, we asked the subscribers of Bbom Bbom Bbom
to put stickers on it They put so many stickers on it, right? Those singers who put these stickers, I really really thank you And you know what's really funny? It's the waiting room
for the members, you know? Here, unnies from our company were preparing for the 9th anniversary
party, but I caught them But, isn't this too obvious? (lol) I'll go to do the next schedule now Thank you for your good work today as well Ha young, please say
'thank you for your good work' Ah, thank you for such a good work (good job) Bye! (cookie-a tearful birthday party.mp4)
Happy birthday to you (she's acting although she knew it lol)
What is it, what is it, what is it Happy birthday to you Happy birthday dear Apink (she's surprised because there are so many)
Happy birthday to you (happy birthday to Apink
who got 9 years old) Did I act well? Give it to me already (suddenly choked up) (Cho rong is already crying)
She's acting, she's acting I'm not acting Bo mi is really crying Bo mi was aware of it though? She was aware of it, and came here U-huung Why why (crying hard all of a sudden) (lol)
No, everyone is strange because they're crying I can't cry because of you Hu-eeeng (meanwhile, she's taking a selfie lol) We received it for the first time
after 9 years It's not that, it's not because
we received it for the first time Why did you do such thing..
We are so moved It's like our last time U-heeeng (her tear tap is opened lol) - Everyone, you really did a hard work
- In a meantime, Bo mi said 'open the gift though' Open it, open it Wow, it's a necklace, huh? Since the birthstone for April is diamond We prepared a diamond necklace - April? Wow, my birthday is in April..
- Is it a real diamond? - How many carats is this?
- That's why we're strong Isn't it the jewel with
the highest strength? I should wear it now No but, how did you buy this though? Wouldn't it be included in the
statement of accounts? Ah, no, never What an impressive-breaker Thank you Thank you for your efforts (the tearful birthday party is over)
We'll look forward to the next year 