Hello everyone! This episode on my back to school series will
cover an array of planners, calendars and apps so you get organized this year in the
best possible way, while simplifying your planning routine and making sure you won’t
forget any of your appointments and assignments. For school advice and tips follow me on Instagram
and Tumblr where I post every day. Also, don’t forget to subscribe and click
the bell button to get notified for all my back to school videos coming up this summer. I will post twice a week until the mid of
September so you can kickstart your school year fully prepared. For a full schedule just check the description
box below in case you are curious about a specific topic. A good planner is the foundation of an organized
school life. Different people need different types of planners. We all have different ways to organize. Some people prefer to plan in a broader way,
using monthly calendars. Other people prefer more detail so daily planners
provide the space you need to fill in all of your tasks. I will guide you through different options
so you can adopt the best planning system for you this year, according to budget, layout
and bulk. I’ve teamed up with Graphicstock for this
video so I could provide you with a free twelve Starting with the digital side of planning,
there are tons of apps, programs and websites I could recommend. Right now I am loving Fantastical 2 for the
Mac. It has a great minimalistic layout, a dark
theme, supports multiple calendars and accounts and is overall really easy to manage. However, besides being exclusive to Mac and
iOs, it’s a paid app. A free alternative is the calendar app that
comes with all mac computers – it’s a bit less powerful but overall a great program
for managing your time and schedule. Google calendar is also a classic, it’s
free to use and it synchs with all of your devices. It has great customization options, labels
and lets you manage your tasks with a yearly, monthly, weekly or daily view. The secret is to use a program or app that
can import tasks and events from external calendar sources and can be synchronized with
multiple devices and even different programs. One of my favorite apps for this is Sol Calendar. You can use this app on your phone and use
your icloud or google calendar account. All the tasks and events you create with Sol
Calendar will then appear on other apps that use icloud like Calendar for Mac, Fantastical
and so on. The same happens for other windows or android
apps and programs. For all of you iphone users, Sol Calendar
isn’t available on the app store but you have a very similar option called Sunrise
Calendar which also supports the major calendar services and has a beautiful design and layout. On the non-digital side, you have the holy
grail of all planners and agendas, the bullet journal. A customizable planner and diary that you
can design yourself and personalize according to your needs. I have a whole playlist on bullet journaling
basics, to-dos, tips and DIY’s so check that in the link in the right upper corner
of the screen to get started. For standard, printed agendas, the best option
for customization are the planners from personal planner.com. You can design the exterior and interior of
the planner, being able to chose from multiple sizes, page layouts, covers, elastic colors,
ruler colors, back pages and so on. I also have a full review on this planner
that you can check out on the description box. I couldn’t do a video about planners without
mentioning the Erin Condren Life Planner. This planner is gorgeous, featuring weekluy
and monthly spreads, notes pages, stickers, a perpetual calendar and multiple interchangeable
covers. The price, however, is not the best, and the
international shipping can be a hassle for anyone outside the US. I have also felt a major drop in the printing
quality during the past year so right now it’s not a product I would recommend for
students. A good alternative from the same Brand is
their academic planner, a more compact, perfect bound planner that’s more budget friendly. Still on the search for great coil bound planner
alternatives for the Erin Condren, the Plum Paper Planners have always been a great choice. You can chose the layout and the cover from
a variety of nature and geometrical patterns and they come much cheaper in comparison,
we’re talking about a price drop from 50 or 60$ to 32$ so it’s almost half the price. The Happy Planner is also a good alternative. The good thing about this one is that it hasn’t
a coil but individual placed rings, which mean it works like a binder, being much easier
to customize and insert your own pages and spreads. It’s priced at around 20 or 30 dollars and
comes with a whole array of different covers. You also have tons of accessories to chose
from, like planner dividers, stickers, inserts and so on. What I don’t like about this planner is
the inside layout – I think the design is still poor in comparison to other planners
in the market, the date numbers are too big and I don’t like the color scheme that they’ve
used. Other planner category that’s great for
students is the planner binder. Besides the Bullet Journal, this type of planner
is the king of customization since every single page that goes inside is of your own choice. I have used a Filofax for many months and
I am currently excited to start using it again as a home organizer. Filofax provides tons of inserts, from yearly,
monthly, weekly, daily, notes pages, colored pages, budget planners, you name it. You can also find tons of inserts at Etsy
– some of them are downloadable PDF’s that you can print at home and cut to the
size of your planner. For the most creative, you can also create
your inserts easily with a design or photo editing software or even with Microsoft Word. Tell me in the comments below if you’d like
to see a tutorial on how to create your own inserts and I will be sure to make one for
you. Still on the Binder Planner category, Kikki
K also has amazing planners. They are more colourful and cheerful than
the Filofax and usually feature gold rings, and more pockets and organization on the binder
itself. These are shipped from Australia, so if you
are overseas, that can be a problem, since the shipping is expensive and you’ll probably
have to pay for customs. However, Kikki K has opened a variety of stores
around the US and United Kingdom so you can still get your hands in one of their planners
without ordering online. Other alternatives are the CarpeDIem planners
and Webster’s Pages Color Crush Planners. Perfect bound or hardbound planners are the
most compact out of all categories and they are also very lightweight. A classic example is the Moleskine 18 Months
Planners. They come in a variety of sizes and colors,
feature monthly and weekly pages as well as a page for notes in each week. I’ve actually used these planners for a
couple of years before I was introduced to other brands and I still swear by these. They are also the cheaper planners in this
list. Leuchtturm also has similar planners to the
Moleskine planners and at a similar price point. They also offer different sizes, layouts,
from monthly, weekly, weekly with notes, academic and so on. Between the two, I prefer Leuchtturm’s paper
quality so if I had to choose one I would go with it. However, sometimes I have difficulty finding
the inside layout I want for the planner sizes that they have available so that’s something
to have in mind. Erin Condren has also released a new hard
bound life planner. It’s much cheaper than the coiled version
but it also comes with less customization options and only four colored covers to chose
from. The inside layout is very similar to the classic
Life Planner but now the neutral and colourful versions are associated with the cover of
the planner, so once you chose a color you have to go with the inside layout that goes
with it. So I hope you’ve enjoyed this planner showdown. If I haven’t mention a planner that you
love, feel free to comment down below so other people can see your recommendation. Don’t forget to subscribe for more back
to school videos and I will see you next week. Bye! 