Hey, welcome back to my channel if you are new here, my name is Tom Harlock I do not have an intro but I do have the three very exciting pieces of news with me. Number one, I will be attending summer in the city 2018 in London next weekend, which is August 10th the 13th, I think So if you've got a ticket come along and say hi Or if you haven't go and buy one and throw an egg at me, I don't know. Number two My store has opened at Harlock.co. There are links for US, international stores and European and UK, etc I've even made them cheaper than most other youtubers merchandise because I don't know. I just like undercutting people if I'm honest phone cases clothing towels cushions everything you could - socks I'm even selling socks. There's a bunch of different designs from simple handmade to Commission very very detailed and beautiful Please take a look, Harlock.co you will not be disappointed. Thirdly I thought it would be a great idea to relive my glory days If you have only just started watching my youtube channel And you haven't been following my online journey for a while, then you wouldn't know that I'm actually probably the most successful Viner hands down, known to man And so I have set myself the challenge to come up with ten brand new Vines for today's video in the theme of *duh duh duh duh duh*(mimicking trumpet sounds) True-crime. Just because vines dead, doesn't mean the whole 6-second looping joke format is. Every time I think of a joke I think ah, how does this fit into a vine? It's just my natural instinct now after doing for so many years, instead of suppressing those thoughts I thought you know what? I'm gonna put it on YouTube. Someone would probably like it. Vine compilations are one of the most searched things on the internet So might as well add some new fun to the fire and don't get me wrong I don't think I'm the best person in the world, but I do think I'm bringing ten new vines in 2018 I don't see anyone else doing that, so If you get offended by these then I'm sorry, but this it's kind of that's what I do. I don't like to be offensive I like to be funny if I'm completely honest. I'm not sure how old you guys are So if you don't know what a Venn diagram is this is that this circle indicates offensiveness and this circle indicates hilarity I plan on being right in the middle So if I'm not that let me know, but I think if I'm honest I'm probably gonna nail it Wish me luck. That all just went in my tea If I drank my own hair, will I get powers? probably not Sir we have another letter from the zodiac. Yes. Thank you It's another cryptic message. Do you understand? I don't think we'll ever know... Send it to the lab Our next speaker today the rustic Aileen Wuornos Blue is sky, green is grass. I hope your wife and children get r *cough* in the ass Legend says if you read this into a mirror, you'll hear the cries of a young virgin. Sounds a little bit fake but alright sister sister sister sis... GOD IS A WOOMANN And you live right next door to a school, that must make the morning's easier. You know what, I do love having the ki- (Gun shot sounds) Kids so close Please help me. A man just tried to bite my penis off. He's got so many dead bodies- That's so saaad. Are you okay? Did you say the bodies were that way? (immitating German) Gupen shlappen little fritters if we smash 5,000 like button. I give daughter granddaughter this bag of air! Oh no, I'm walking alone in the forest And I can't hear or see anything I'm so vulnerable Mr. Mcann What would you say to the people doubting your actions directly after Madeleine went missing? 15 minutes after Madeleine went missing? I left the negative review for the tapas bar TripAdvisor. Now that's productive The court now request mr. James try on the glove (scattered ooing and ahhing) Not guilty It's me. JonBenet Ramsay! Oh crudsickles, my Daddy gone left the tag on my dress (on TV) So, JonBenet Ramsay  (Jon) shoot on a stick and molest me in a corn field I gon' done won That's all for today's video. If you enjoyed it, please make sure to give me a like comment subscribe for more Let me know down in the comments below which vine was your favorite I might post a couple of them on Twitter or maybe my Instagram story. Who knows? Also comment down below which kind of vine challenge you want me to do next. Should I do vine challenge youtuber style? Oh my god, comment that, because I want to do that. Oh my god, the ultimate revenge. Hi youtubers. I'm a viner sorry that my platform died I'm just gonna invade yours and now slowly take the piss out of you using my old platform but on the new platform That's gonna be fun, isn't it? I haven't been accepted into the YouTube community because I used to be a viner and I won't stop banging on about it But it gives the fuck? It's my strength. Sorry that I don't want to bathe in Orbeez. Thank you for watching. I love you. Bye I'm gonna cut my finger off the next time I cut - AH Sir we've had another letter from the zodiac. Yes. Thank you It's another cryptic message. Do you understand? I don't think we'll ever know send it to the lab our next speaker today the rustic Aileen Wuornos Blue is sky green is grass I hope your wife and children get r- *coughs* in the ass . Legend says if you read this into a mirror You'll hear the cries of a young virgin. Sounds a little bit fake, but all right sister sister sister Sis - GOD IS A WOOMANN And you live right next door to a school, that must make the mornings easier, you know what I do love having the ki- (gun shot sounds) Kids so close Please help me. A man just tried to bite my penis off. He's got so many dead bodies- That's so saaad.  Are you okay? Do you see the bodies were that way? (immitating German) Goopen shlappen little critters, if we smash 5000 like button, I give daughter and granddaughter this bag of air Oh no, I'm walking alone in the forest And I can't hear or see anything I'm so vulnerable Mr. Mcann What would you say to the people doubting your actions directly after Madeleine went missing? 15 minutes after Madeleine went missing? I left the negative review for the tapas bar TripAdvisor. Now that's productive the court now request Mr. James try on the glove (scattered ooing and ahhing) Not guilty It's me, JonBenet Ramsay. Oh crudsickles, my Daddy gone left the tag on my dress (on TV) so, JonBenet Ramsay (Jon)shoot on a stick and molest me in a cornfield I gone don't won 