As I publish this video, it is already the
first day of 2020. And it's also December 30, 2019,
they haven't actually started rigging the fireworks on
the London Eye yet. But the reason I can say that it's 2020 is also the reason why, a few years back, Twitter failed for a few hours. See, there are a lot of calendars in the world. Yes, most of us have standardised on the
Gregorian calendar, January to December, but there are still some 
used for specific things. In the Islamic calendar, it's the year 1441. In the Hebrew calendar, 5780. And in the ISO Week System, defined by the International Standards Organisation
and used for finance and business, it is already 2020. It's handy sometimes, particularly
when you're dealing with money, to always have a whole number of weeks
in a year. And 7 days in a week just doesn't divide into
365 days in a year cleanly. Or 366 for a leap year. So back in the seventies, the ISO defined
the ISO Week System: where the year always starts on a Monday, and there are always a whole number of weeks
in the year. Most of a time that's 52 weeks,
so 52 times 7: 364 days, but occasionally there's basically a
'leap week' to catch things up. Most of the time, the ISO year number is the
same as the regular one we all use. But around New Year,
it's not always in perfect sync. Like right now. As I publish this, it is December 30th, 2019,
Gregorian Calendar. But in the ISO Week System, it is year 2020, week 1, day 1. It's a perfectly valid calendar, but it can be confusing because it's so close
to our regular Gregorian calendar. And it doesn't have the concept
of months. Only weeks. It's only meant to be used for things like
bookkeeping and paying salary. But back at the end of 2014,
Twitter's Android app and web site mysteriously failed for a few hours. And the reason was almost certainly someone
getting the two calendars mixed up. See, most high-level programming languages
have a function for getting the current date and time, and formatting it
in a particular human-friendly way. So if you want the day, month and year in
a human-friendly format, you create a string like that,
you run it through a standard function, and it swaps out the bits
that flagged by percent signs, and you get a sensible result out. But it's easy to get the letters
in that string wrong. %m is month as a number.
But %b is the month written out as a word. They're not always the letters you expect. Plus, most programmers
don't have to use that often, so we tend to refer to the help files
every time to be safe. And if you just search those help files from
the top down for "year", the first result is %g. So you go ahead, not knowing what
ISO week means, you use %g, and it looks right, and you don't realise until, well, today, that it's using a completely different calendar. And that's almost certainly why, for a few
hours back at the end of 2014, at least, our 2014, Twitter got the year wrong. They'd accidentally taken the day and month
from the Gregorian calendar, but the year from the ISO week system. It's one of those bugs that
even with a lot of testing, you might not actually spot
until something goes wrong. So if 2019 has been a rough year for you,
and you want to leave it behind: change calendars for a little while. Welcome to the twenties. 