For ages I’ve been wanting to make a video
analyzing time travel in fiction – not the magical or physical mechanisms by which the
time travel is supposedly achieved , but rather, the different ways time travel can influence
causality (and thus the plot) within the universe of each story. Needless to say, there are spoilers ahead! Let's start with Ender's Game by Orson Scott
Card – time travel in this book is actually 100% realistic: the characters experience
slower passage of time when they travel close to light speed, allowing just a few days or
months to pass for those traveling while years pass on earth or other planets. It's traveling forward through time like we
normally do, but at different rates. This kind of time travel doesn't "change the
past" or allow characters to make different decisions than the ones they already did – it's
all one consistent historical trajectory. The original Planet of the Apes film is similar,
where astronauts experience extreme time dilation and then crash land on a strange ape-ruled
planet that (major spoiler) turns out to just be earth in the distant future. But what about actual time-travel time travel? Well, I would say there are two big distinguishing
features between different types of time travel in fiction. The first is whether or not the time traveler
is there when history happens the "first time around" – that is, is there a kind of "self-consistency"
where, since time travel takes you to the past, when the past happened the first time,
the time-traveling version of you was always there to begin with? Or does the very act of time traveling to
the past change what happened and force the universe onto a different trajectory of history
from the one you experienced prior to traveling? And the second distinguishing feature is:
who has free will when somebody is time traveling. Like, whose actions are allowed to move history
onto a different trajectory, and whose aren't? One of the simplest time travels is "do-over"
time travel, where you essentially get to re-play history starting exactly as it was
at a certain point, with the only caveat being you remember your experiences from already
having tried various possible future timelines (while no one else does). It’s essentially like playing a video game
where you can start a level over with the foresight of what you did wrong the first
time. For example, in Groundhog Day Bill Murray's
character relives the same day over and over again, and though he can make different choices
each time, he always starts back at the same point (except with new memories of his previous
choices). That is, until he figures out the one exact
set of choices that frees him from the loop. I consider "A Christmas Carol" to be in this
vein, too, even though it may not seem like time travel. But because Scrooge gets to visit the future
of his current timeline, even though he has no ability to affect the timeline directly
while "visiting", he can still change his actions in the present based on what he learns,
essentially getting a “do-over.” The video game Braid is built on the idea
of “do-overs”, where you get to rewind a few seconds and try something different
(though there are some things that are immune to going back in time and don't "rewind",
which is what makes the game interesting). Braid also has another kind of time travel,
where you go back to your past as a separate individual, and the past version of you is
there with no free will, just doing exactly what you did the first time around, while
"time-traveling you" can change the course of history. This is also how the video "Clock Blockers"
by the Corridor Digital youtube channel works. And then there's time travel where the very
act of going to the past or future creates a fully new trajectory of history because
time-traveling you weren't there the first time around, and now you are. This includes the typical "anything goes"
time travel movies like Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure, Back to the Future, Star Trek First
Contact, and so on, where you can kind of instantly jump back and forth to any point
in time you want, potentially resulting in multiple versions of yourself. From a causality perspective, anything you
do in the past (and even just the act of going back in time) redirects the course of history
onto a new timeline – in Back to the Future, Marty's interference with his parents falling
in love results in the timeline of history being redirected towards a version of the
future where he doesn't exist and so he starts to disappear from photos and real life. And even after correcting that major deviation,
his interactions with his parents while he’s in the past result in them being very different
people when he returns to his present time; he accidentally caused history to progress
in a slightly different direction. The movie ”Looper" is similar, but there's
a little more circularity because when you jump to the past, you cause history to branch
onto on a trajectory where, in the future, the younger you also goes back in time the
same way you just did. Both you and your past self still have enough
free will to change that forward course of history, though, which results in weirdness
like you getting new memories when your past self does things you yourself didn't do, or
if they lose a body part, suddenly you'll lose it too, replaced by an old scar on your
own body. So, changes to the present affect not just
future timelines, but also future timelines that wrap back around to the present! The indie film Primer is in the same vein,
except that it takes the plot device of time travel to the extreme, with time travel within
time travel within time travel, time-traveling characters interacting with other time-traveling
versions of themselves, bringing time machines with them to the past inside other time machines,
and so on. But beyond the complexity, there are two things
that make Primer stand out: first, time travel to the past isn't an instantaneous jump, but
actually takes time: to go back 6 hours, you sit in the time machine for what feels like
6 hours. And time travel can't take you back to a time
before a given time machine was initially activated, since of course, the machine can
only be taking you back in time inside it if it's turned on, so the first time it was
turned on is the farthest back in time you can go. There's a nice logic to it. Which brings us to perhaps my all time favorite
of all fictional time travel: Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban. It's an "instantly jump back in time" kind
of time travel that doesn't actually generate any new timelines. It manages that because in this universe,
while you were experiencing your initial, pre-time-travel passage through a particular
point in history, your "time-traveling clone" was also already there, doing everything you’ll
eventually do when you time travel yourself. For example, Harry and friends are saved from
dying by their time-traveling selves, the first time through that timeline. It makes so much sense – if you go back
in time, you really and truly were present at that point in time all along! This also means that during the period of
overlap, the time-traveling you has no actual free will, since everything you do has in
some sense already been done, which Harry comprehends when he realizes he has to save
his past self because he was already saved by his future self when he was in the past. I think I love this kind of time travel because
it manages to be logically consistent: it's time travel to the past where you can't change
the past, because the past already happened. And there's only one timeline – the one
in which time travelers arrive from the future, do stuff, and at some later date, leave to
go to the past. Logical consistency is a primary thing that,
you may have noticed, I think lays the foundation for good time travel stories – not because
logical consistency is important in an of itself, but because, most of the time, in
order to care about the characters in a story, we have to believe that actions have consequences. If everything is just a meaningless series
of events, then we almost don't have a story. So it's really helpful if there are rules
by which the universe of the story functions, whatever those rules may be. 