Hello~ Solarsido~ Solar here! [This video was sponsored by Netflix Korea] [Thank you ♡] Lately, due to COVID-19 There's been a lot of time spent at home. So that's why I prepared this challenge! [Drumroll] [Self-sound effects] As a Netflix fan Shows that aren't very well-known on Netflix Really hidden! Ones that make time fly! I prepared a challenge where I introduce 5 such shows. [Yoo-hoo fan] Honestly, on Netflix I think I've seen like.. 200 works. With a bit of a lying added to it~ I'm going to recommend 5 of them
that I thought were enjoyable. Shall I start right away? Let's go~ Go! My first recommendation is "Love Death + Robots". If there are people who work in art This show, I think will give lots of influence and help. In this show, there are 18 different episodes. Each episode is less than 20 minutes
long, they're very short. There's even one that's 8 minutes long.
One that's 10 minutes long. There are really short 18 episodes.
(Even one that's 6 minutes long) Really, time flies with this show!
[This unnie is serious..] The episodes are not connected either, So you can pick what you think looks fun first.
[Without caring about the order] You'll end up watching them all one day. They're stories that have to do with AI or robots. Even for people who don't really
 like SF (science fiction) I think there are a lot of elements that
you can approach it in a fun way. First, the visual beauty is seriously- It makes you wonder,
'Is that a real person?' (Graphic) It's very detailed.
And it's really stimulating. It was shocking to me, right when I watched it. It's.amazing. I think it makes you really fall deep into it. You just saw clips of it right now with this video. Isn't it amazing, really? My second recommendation is "Our Planet". I'm also an Earth fan. Space.. Things like that. Facts that I didn't know about. Stories about the fascinating and vast world. I really like content like that. I think I should call this a documentary? Nature, animals.. It's that type of documentary. The episodes here are also separate. The desert, grasslands, sea, the Arctic. It's divided easily. 'Ah, today's hot..'
If you want to go towards the Arctic You can click on that and you'll
 find the penguins going- It's really healing. Each scene really leaves you in awe. I felt that quite a lot. To the point where you wonder things
like, 'How did they film this?' It made me think that so much effort
and time went into making this work. And since lately, we can't go out that much Many people have been saying 
that they miss traveling. So how would it be to go on a trip
online by watching 'Our Planet'? I hope you watch it once. See you in nature~ My third recommendation is "Tong: Memories". It was released in 2016, but afterward There have been 'Tong fanatics'. And they've been demanding for a season 2. It probably means it's that fun, right? It's a mini-series and there are 12 episodes out. They're all connected. And each episode Is almost under 10 minutes long. They're really short, so even if you
watch one entire season It's almost the same length as watching one movie. Of those that make time fly, this
really makes it go in a flash! It's a story of high school students in Busan. In Busan, they apparently call 
people who fight well 'Tong'. The best one is 'Tong'. Under is the 'sub-Tong' Is..apparently what it is? It's a story about fighting at an all-boys high school. It has a story like that. Really, just the story is really fun. In particular, the reason why it's more fun- I thought carefully about it 'Why is this fun?', I thought about it. The actors' acting is seriously.. Crazy! The male actor from 'The World of the Married' who played the role of the boyfriend who beat his girlfriend [Park In Kyu role in 'The World of the Married'] Lee Hak Ju comes out as the lead role.
He's seriously so good at acting. While watching, I thought they were
all really high school students.. They act that realistically, so I think
that's why I got so immersed in it. There are a lot of females who like action like me. So anyone can enjoy watching this series. Anyway, it's fun! Just, I'll recommend you watch it! Please, trust me and watch it once! My fourth recommendation is "When They See Us". [4-episode mini series] In 1989 The real incident of the 'Central Five'
that turned New York upside down Was taken and made into 4 connected episodes. It's a true story. Recently, and since the past, So many terrible things have been
happening due to racism. Even until now, it hasn't been perfectly solved And is the reality we're living in. I think 'When They See Us' shows human rights being trampled over in a frank and very detailed manner. To tell you just how detailed it was The actors met the actual people And learned the way they walk, 
talk, and everything else. They apparently made a lot of effort
in order to act the same way. It was number 1 in real-time searches not only in America but in other countries as well. It received much attention and love. And very good reviews It's that kind of work. If you watched it, right beside it There's 'Oprah Winfrey Presents: When They See Us Now'. The actors and actual people are on the Oprah Winfrey Show And there's a video of them conversing. I watched [the show] and even that as well. You can hear about the 'behind the scenes', 
so I thought it was really nice. Make sure, when you have time, 
(Able to focus well) I recommend that you watch it. My last recommendation on Netflix is... "Black Mirror". I've recommended this to a lot of people around me.
[Episodic show with 5 seasons] Because it's so~~ fun. Honestly, I'm looking to buy eyes
that haven't seen this yet. It's to that point
(Because she wants to see it again) It's so so fun. And it's a show that I really want to recommend. 'Black Mirror' kind of has stories about the future? Like something that could exist? A future that feels like could exist soon.. A really near future. It has stories about that near future. We are moving forward at a very fast speed. Machines and other various things 
are developing really quickly, right? In the world lately. Regarding these things, while they are really nice It makes you wonder, 'Is this only good?' I feel like 'Black Mirror' has that kind of message. You'll know if you watch it. But, it makes you think a lot while watching. Like, if things develop like this.. 
Something like this could happen.. It's interesting and really scary. I think I felt a variety of emotions. The clips that just came on were from 'Hated in the Nation'. (Season 3 episode) The content of that is somewhat gratifying but scary. It was really strange. Really, just watch at least one.
And it won't be easy to stop. Highly recommended! (Subscribe, like) Anyway, like this I took the time to recommended 5 things that aren't well-known or hidden on Netflix. How was it? (Scream!!!!!) Thank you. Also, in the comments I think it would be nice if you also 
recommended things to me. If only I recommend things It's no fun~ So, really fun things! Really! But, for me.. Really long seasons are hard for me. It's hard for me to watch. (Likes watching short and sweet things) Short or not too long ones.. Please recommend them. I want to watch them, too. Lately, I've been watching this and that a lot. But, if our Yongwangnims make recommendations I think they'll be more fun. So please give lots and lots of 
recommendations in the comments. Now then, my 5 hidden recommendations! I hope they were helpful And I will return with a greater challenge next time. Thank you so much for watching today. Thank you~ See you next time~ (Subscribe, like) Everyone, For Yongwangnims In order to explain Netflix
recommendations in a simple, fun way I wrote this in my spare time during schedules I'm showing off to you all. If you look... I wrote it quite long. Down to here. "Thank you!" I prepared it. I'm not trying to take credit~ Anyway Our Yongwangnims Only look at good things Only eat good things And only do good things. Peace. Peace. Peace. How is it? I haven't seen it either. (Funny the more she thinks about it) I'm curious. It's to that extent? (Subtitles by ch0sshi & LilySUBS) 