It’s a truth… universally acknowledged:
reporters, from ALL over the world... talking in a weird, over accentuated voice, like this. [Montage of anchors and reporters using non-regional
diction.] Okay, okay, okay, we get the idea. If you watch TV news, you’ll know that anchors,
reporters, meteorologists, correspondents, almost EVERYBODY who holds the microphone
talks in this weird, sing-songy voice full of over-exaggerated inflections and an accent
that sounds like it comes from nowhere. What is "Newscaster’s Voice", and why is
it clogging up our airwaves? It turns out Newscaster’s Voice is actually
something TAUGHT in journalism and broadcasting schools called "Non-Regional Diction", or
the General American accent. It's a way of pronouncing words that lacks
any distinct regional or ethnic characteristics. In other words, as Linda Ellerbee, a television
broadcast journalist, once famously said, "In television, you're not supposed to sound
like you're from anywhere." Yours truly worked a few years at a couple
local news affiliates in Springfield, MO - and during MY time as a photojournalist, I met
a LOT of reporters who, off-camera, sounded completely different than they did when the
red light was on. But, that’s the name of the game! Being a reporter means moving around a lot,
often hopping from station to station, and region to region, as work becomes available
- getting a long-term contract is pretty rare these days. And folks who watch local news generally are
less trusting of reporters if their accent doesn’t match that of the town. SO, it’ll be hard to get hired as a reporter
in, say, Dothan, Alabama, if you sound like you’re from Boston. The solution, then, is a general dialect,
free of anything unique to a particular geographical area. Non-Regional Diction is meant to be clear,
and easily understandable no matter who is watching. Afterall, as a reporter, your number 1 job
is to convey information. So, on camera, reporters speak slowly and
clearly, using a tone and cadence that can be understood plainly by all Americans, regardless
of what part of the country they hail from. When done right, it should be unnoticable...
something that even the most astute YouTube commenter can’t detect. *cough* When done poorly, placing an over-the-top
inflection in the same place every time, Non-Regional Diction can actually become irritating, and
risk losing the audience. So, the next time you sit down to watch the
evening news and the reporter or correspondent sounds like a robot pretending to be a human...
remember - behind the awkward articulation... is a human being, who, like you, is desperate
to be understood. I’m Austin McConnell, KYX7-123LMNOP News. Hey, on the subject of newscasts: And also, thanks to my Patreon supporters
who are listed on screen. Starting at just $1 a month, you can get behind
the scenes access to my channel. Check it out, if you care. 