In today's episode we're exploring an abandoned Tuberculosis sanatorium that dates back over a century ago. When it was built, it was one of the largest sanatoriums in the United States. In the 1940s, antibiotics had developed to a point that Tuberculosis was a curable disease. In the following decades, sanatoriums across the country would shut down. Including this one Now we're venturing inside to discover what's left. So this was a Tuberculosis Hospital. They had a lot of windows because a view and a nice breeze was thought to cure Tuberculosis. But the windows also expose us as we explore the sanatorium. But the windows also provide a nice atmosphere, which was the point of them I guess. This place is surrounded by active roads, and an active hospital complex. So we need to be careful. We do need to keep our voices down, because of all the widows that people could hear us through. It seems like there's some furniture left, old desks. It's all just thrown about. Look, a light fixture with the glass still on it! And some chairs just chilling in the hallway. Little lights above each room. Those are things they have in modern hospitals, but these are an old version of it. There's restraints on that chair. Looks more like a seatbelt to me, but yeah. Yeah, it's just a seatbelt. Not actually that sinister. That's an old looking wheelchair. Yeah, solid wood. So the Tuberculosis section of the hospital closed down in 1973. But around 1975 is when these were fully decommissioned. There's some old text on the doors. Hand-painted. There is a basement, but we're gonna go upstairs first. Do you know what I was told? "What?" I was told that the two middle buildings are the boring ones. And we're in one of the middle buildings. So I'm excited to see the outer buildings. Old lights! Look at that, you can see the fresnel lens in there! An old elevator indicator, one of the ones with the arrows that move. I love seeing this. Looks like there's another elevator door back here where it says "SHAFTWAY" [NOISE OF TRAFFIC OUTSIDE] The ceiling is just caving in... It's not the actual ceiling, no. It's just like a layer of the roof.  It's just a thin layer, peeling down. That's part of the floor of room above us. But the floors are fine to walk on, still. This is old-fashioned ceiling that has fallen down. This is a more modern looking stairwell. Probably added later in the hospital's life to keep up with fire codes and such. This one's the top floor. The seashell details are so cool! And there are drawings of people on the wall. All really cool. Wow, there's more vegetation on the top floor than on the lower floors. The architecture in here is so cool. It doesn't feel like a hospital, it feels more like a vintage beachside hotel Just look all the detailing, here. The copper roof has turned blue. Here's the elevator motor, right at the bottom. Let's go this way first. Old circuit breaker. Or maybe it's power distribution. So chilly in here. So let's go to the next building. This building has more stuff. I can see a piano, already. I can see a catheterization tray. This would have been where they all were. All the catheters, fluids etc. Urinary drainage tubes and bags... Lots of fun stuff! This building has a lot of things left. There's patient information from 1965. This is like a whole biography about the patient. The daughter called asking about their mother's condition... It has the patient's height... [READING THE DOCUMENT] "She says she is the old-fashioned type has blue eyes and glasses" What is this? "Date of admission - 1934" ...Damn! This is really interesting stuff. I'm showing that filing cabinet. There's even more of these somewhere around here. Even her dental records are in here. That piano is done... This whole room is full of files! It's crazy... Vanity mirrors... Older wheelchairs are a lot more narrow than modern wheelchairs. Have you noticed that? New wheelchairs are huge compared to these. These are cool. Old sewing machines. The patients would have used these for recreation. It would have been a bunch of grandmas. This was senior care back when the hospital was open. We're not 100% sure that they used this building for senior care, though. But they could have just stored the sewing machines in here. Well, even if they weren't seniors, normal patients could have used the machines to learn to sew. Not sure what this was. It has a miliampheres gauge... It could be old x-ray equipment, because I think this is an x-ray light board. Here's another one. Yes, I think it was x-ray machine. It says "This equipment is dangerous to both patient and operator unless safe exposure factors are observed." Another one of those wheelchairs, this one without the wheels. This looks really interesting. There is some kind of symbol, here... It says: "K E L E K E T" The KELEKET Company manufactured x-ray equipment such as this examination table. Given the streamlined modern styling, it likely dates back to the 1930s or 1940s. This probably would have controlled the motor. I can see that this floor has a lot a lot less on it already. This chair has migrated on its own to a prime just-chillin' spot. Definitely was not placed there by a photographer  ; ) In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, large institutions were being built all over the world to house Tuberculosis patients. Since no cure was known, the idea was to create a pleasant environment where patients would have the best chances of healing naturally. Therefore, sanatorium architecture was often grand and detailed, with large windows to let in natural light and many balconies where patients could get fresh air. None of these things were effective in treating tuberculosis. However, the sanatoriums did help contain the spread of the disease by isolating afflicted patients away from the general population. All these lights lit up, but someone cut the cable... They cut it right here. I wonder why they cut it... It was probably live with electricity. Look at the cobwebs... Let's get away from the active wiring. There's so much here. That's an active building right there outside the window, though... We're gonna get seen if we stick around in here. Here's the dental equipment. We'll take a look in here. All right, be careful if you see somebody in that hallway over there... There's some cool stuff in this room. This is an old calculator. All the buttons are jammed. Wow, they really left it like this?! "Those retraints on the bed are cool."  "You wanna get in them?"  "No!" This is Third Floor Geriatrics. There's more of those hair-drying chairs... This is definitely the best building so far. You won't see anything that looks like this in a modern hospital. Nothing newer than the past five decades in here. This is all 50+ years old. (Jokingly): "It's as old as his camera!" This camera is from the 1970s. This hospital closed in the 1970s, so the stuff in here is /at least/ as old as the camera! You can put my camera in this room and it'll fit right in! Second floor has some good stuff, too... There's a bed down there. Look at these old bottles... Probably had medicines in them at one point... Yeah, there's stuff in here. More beds with restraints on them. What are these handles on the crib for? I don't know, hanging stuff? They look like hand handles... They're so the baby you can do some pull-ups! This thing is weird... I don't know what this is. It has red stuff in it. It looks like the thing in Harry Potter that they track the house points with... What the f**k is that? It says "caustic" on the side... What is that red s**t?! I don't know, this is crazy though, I've never seen anything like this. Is this even a medical device? I don't know. It's creepy. It's like mad scientist stuff. There's just tubes connected to it over here... Oh, we're stepping on this orange stuff... Whatever it is. It's all over the floor... The one on the right is the same color. It's like a sensor connection for whatever that's in there. This side was more yellow... And this side is shiny and moist... The stuff could be really dangerous. [laughs nervously] We have no idea what it is. If you think going to the hospital is scary today, just imagine what it was like to go to the hospital back then. This looks strangely familiar, it's almost like the floor below us was set up the exact same way! Only the top floor has these ornate details. I love how copper looks once it turn blue... Yeah, that's sealed up... There's stuff in the basement in this building. That's a good sign: even the basement has intersting stuff. Holy cow! It's like a whole laboratory in here! Some crazy stuff! Any Tuberculosis samples? [laughs] HNO 3 plus 3 HCL I'll have to look that up and see what this is... There's that vintage font on the roof. I'll have to find out what that font is. A bunch of refrigerators in here... A Sears branded refrigerator. [Whispering] There are people right outside.   Did they see you?   No. This place is wall-to-wall interesting stuff. Those look like examinations beds. And who knows what this stuff covered in plastic sheets is... There's that minty-blue color again. I think that colour was seen as "sterile" back in the day. Well, this label answers that question about what these were. "Electrically cooled oxygen tent" That kind of raises a lot more questions though... These oxygen tents were used to create a high oxygen environment for patients to breathe in. Nowadays, nasal tubes are a much more practical way of achieving the same effect This looks like a old x-ray machine. Some kind of urological table... That doesn't sound fun. There's charts on that thing, on the spools. Does it say anything on it about what it is? Even a doctor would probably struggle to tell you what some of these things are. A modern doctor, I mean. [Reading the words on boxes] "Sani-Glas"? I guess the glass was very sanitary. It's a heart rate and temperature chart. Looks like daily stats. November 1965 and December. Looks like the building's starting to shift up here: the window frame's all crooked. "Joint Intermittent Compression Unit" These would plug in here. This machine was something pneumatic. At this point we had covered all of the buildings we came to see and it was time to leave. With the amount of vintage medical equipment in here, you could probably fill an entire museum. Many of the objects are so uncommon that when we searched for them on the internet, there were no results. Redevelopment plans have been discussed for the buildings. But so far, nothing has been put into motion. For now, the buildings and artifacts inside will continue to waste away... 