- [Annoying Orange] Yeah, yeah! Orangey's the winner,
winner, chicken dinner! (upbeat techno music) (Annoying Orange laughs) All right, let's boot
up some Fartnite, right? (fart noises) (Annoying Orange laughs) All right, it's looking good. Looking good on this screen too. TootieFruity9999, kicking
it in the house. (laughs) All right, gonna play a round of Squads. I don't know what that
is, but let's kick it. Yeah, looking good doing that dance, nice. Oh man, I got moves. All right. Oh yeah, I got this gun,
gonna shoot you in the booty, here it comes! (laughs) Aw, we're back on the flying bus again. All right, it's been a long time since I played Fartnite before, so I don't expect to do too well. Although, on this Red Magic 3 phone, it's looking pretty good, I gotta say. Woo wee! Feel the air, on my derriere. (laughs) I'm gonna get the drop on ya, yeah! Oh, parachute. Try and land far away from enemy players. Oh, really? You don't need
to tell me what to do, game, I know what to do. Actually, I don't. (laughs) You guys got any
trampolines I can land on? That'd be awesome. Oh, there's something
right here, I can see it. Yeah, gimme, gimme, all these gifts. What is it? Yes, I got a pistol, nice. The better to shoot your
booty with. (laughs) So I'm liking this already, 'cause it's got buttons on the top and you can map stuff to
that, so that's pretty cool. Hopefully it gives me a
leg up on the competition, even though I don't have legs. Hey, who's shooting at me! Oh, I see you! Oh no! Okay, get my gun! Yes, I'm gonna get him! (Annoying Orange exclaims) Oh, you shot the tree I was hiding behind. Not fair, not fair! Oh, did I get him? What happened? Oh, he's crawling away. I'm
gonna shoot him in the booty. Gonna shoot you in the booty. Booty shoots. Yeah, I did it, I won the game. (laughs) Actually, I think I got
the first kill, nice. See, I'm so good at this game. (laughs) I love Fartnite. (fart noises) It's so juicy. (laughs) Oh man, I don't have very much power left, I'm gonna go hide over, so
that I can put this bandage on, figure out how to do that. Are you sure you're doing that right? I'm not sure you're doing that right. Shouldn't you get that done
by a medical professional? Hey, I did it! Yay, I got 100% power now, nice. I knew what I was doing. (laughs) When in doubt, just mash buttons. What are those things over there? Are those the people I have to go get? Okay, let's go get them. New landmark, Rapid's Rest, okay. What is this? Oh, there
was something back here, should I pick this up, what is it? Submachine gun, yeah. That would be awesome if it
was a submarine submachine gun. Yeah, got some XP. I don't know what that does. Can I drive this? I wanna drive this. I can't drive this. Oh, can I drive this? I can, yeah! Sweet, whatever floats your boat. This definitely floats my boat, yeah. Now I'm totally gonna win. Who's gonna stop me now? Yo, water you thinking? (laughs) Oh, what's this
flishy-flashy thing out here, can I do that? Can I touch it? Does it blow up if I touch it? I want explosions, please. What is it? Oh, it's a new landmark. Oh, boring. I like land-phils, or land-bobs,
or land-sallys. (laughs) Wait, what's happening here? Uh oh. Now the storm is coming! Where am I supposed to go? Oh no, the storm eye is shrinking. But what about the storm ears? Do those shrink too or do those stay big? And then you look like Dumbo. What's going on? Come on, go! Yeah, got the boost for your butt. I don't care what you say, this is an all-terrain
vehicle here. (laughs) Yeah, you just gotta use the boost. There we go. (laughs) It totes works, see? I'm back in the storm, or
outta the storm, whatever. Whichever one you're not supposed to do. Oh, look at this, there's a jump. I'm gonna jump down into the water. Yes, let's get back down to the water, then we can go super fast. All right, yeah, kicking booties. Aw, you broke the boat. Snowman! Hey, how do you injure a snowman? Hit him in the snow balls. (laughs) Running and gunning and
having some funning, and yeah, yeah! What are we doing? How many people are left? 49, wow, I'm doing pretty good. It's almost like I know
what I'm doing or something. Which I don't. (laughs) If you ask me how to build
anything in this game, I'd be like, I don't know. New landmark, Eye Land. (laughs) Leave the puns to me. Whatchu doin'? I gotta say guys, I'm
really like this phone. Everything runs really smoothly, the battery life is awesome. It's got a super fast
processor, whatever that means. I don't even know what
that means. (laughs) As long as my Fartnites are fast, that's all that matters. Down to 38. What's over here, what is this? Oh, another boat, I see a boat! Yeah, all mine. Oh yeah, everybody all up in this game is in trouble now. Tootiefruity9999 has got a boat. How boat it, huh? (laughs) It is ferry nice. (laughs) Get it? Ferry? Oh no, the eye of the storm. It's coming, or it's
closing, whatever it does. We gotta go in this circle. Phew, okay, we're there. We got it guys, don't worry. Oh yeah, I'm just playing
the long game here, let's see, down to 34, nice. All right, cruising for a... Wait, I think there's somebody up here! (Annoying Orange exclaims) Oh, maybe there wasn't. (laughs) What? What, you can't take the
boat through the building? What a rip off. If I wanna smash through a
building wall like Kool-Aid Man, I should be able to. Can't stop me. Oh yeah! Oh, what's this? Hay bale? Can I grab the hay? Whoa, this is my home now. (laughs) I remember the first
time I played Fortnite, I had so much trouble finding a gun. It feels like there's
just guns everywhere now. Uh oh, I think I see somebody. I think there's somebody over here. Oh yeah, there's definitely
somebody over here. He's coming right at me. Oh, you gonna get it! Yeah, you want some of this? Come on, come on, yeah! Oh, you gonna get it! Yeah! What, what? Nothing? Oh, you're on my team. (laughs) What, I thought team members
liked to get shot in the booty every once in a while. You know, just for motivation. (laughs) Not for death or anything,
just for motivation. That's how I motivate my team members. Wait, what's with the... Who's shooting? Ow, hey, did somebody just shoot me? Oh, that's it. Okay, what's going on? Yeah, take this windmill. Yeah, you want some of... Oh, you're over here. (Annoying Orange exclaims) Okay, reload, reload quickly! Oh, I don't have any bullets for that gun. Quickly, change the gun. (laughs) Yeah, Orangy's the winner,
winner, chicken dinner. Who else is shooting at me? No, please don't shoot at me. I don't need motivation,
I'm good, I'm good. We're golden, we're great, we're awesome. Yeah, oh, nice, that was awesome! Orangy, I got two kills! Would you looky-looky
who got the cookie, yeah. What's this, we're down to 16 players? Are you kidding me right now? Oh my goodness. Wow, this phone is awesome. I am playing so much better. I think it's pretty safe to say, it's probably because
of this phone. (laughs) Don't worry, I'm not gonna
motivate you this time. I would shoot you in the
butt to motivate you, but I'm just gonna let it go this time, so don't worry about it. Uh oh, uh oh, uh oh, I see
some shooting over here. Oh, somebody got taken out
by a sniper rifle, nice. Hey, I'm feeling corny. (laughs) Uh oh, untouchable was
lost in the storm, ha, ha. I think there's somebody in here, I think. Whoa! Okay, I think he's up there in the loft. Oh, hey! Oh, it's my friend. Do you need some booty
shots to motivate you? You don't, you're good? Okay. (laughs) Okay, I thought there was
somebody up here in the loft, but I guess not. Uh oh, is that a good guy or a bad guy? I can't tell. 10 people left, this is crazy. What the? Did I just jump on a trampoline? Yeah, I wanted to jump
on a trampoline, nice. All right, here we go, let's see. Oh, I see some shooting down there. Uh oh, oh no! The eye of the storm is closing,
it's coming right at me. Oh boy, I don't like that,
I'm going over here. (laughs) Hey, what's up, bugmuppin? You need some booty shots
to motivate you, huh? You feeling motivated, or not? All right, wow. Oh, the eye of the storm is
getting really small, you guys. Uh oh, somebody else is shooting. Who's shooting, who wants
some, who wants some? Oh, I see somebody over there. I see you, I see you. Oh no, no, no, no, no, no you don't. Don't shoot my buddy. Only I get to shoot my buddy. I'm the one that gets to motivate him with booty shots, okay? Oh yeah, oh, you want
some of this? (laughs) Yeah! Uh oh, reload, reload quickly! Yes, she's in between us! Yeah! Nice job, friend-o. We're like, totally best buddies. I mean, my best friend is Pear, but when I'm playing this
game, this guy's my bud. Man, he deserves all the
booty shots for motivation. Apparently it worked, 'cause
now we're feeling motivated, we really are. Whoa, check it out, you guys, there is only five
people left in the game. Are you serious right now? Oh wow, there's only four people. You guys, we could actually do this. I have never beaten a game of Fortnite, I've only played like three
games of Fortnite. (laughs) Seriously though, if you go an orange that has no legs and no
arms and he's only played like three games of Fortnite, what does that say? (laughs) It says, that Orangy is just that good. I just wanna keep moving,
I don't wanna stand still, 'cause then it's easier to hit me. I think there's somebody
over here shooting at me. You're shooting at him too, okay? Oh yeah, I'm gonna go over here. Okay, you sniper, I'll go around the side, or you could just kill him
with the sniper rifle. (laughs) Good job, my bud. Yes, this Red Magic 3
phone is so good, you guys. Oh my goodness, I'm kicking
so many booties with it. Unfair Advantage Orange. Okay, okay, oh, we got three seconds until the eye of the storm closes. I don't think there's
really many buildings left, so it's all gonna happen out in the open. Oh, there's only three people left. And I think of those people
is my buddy. (laughs) You guys, this could actually happen. (Annoying Orange exclaims) Oh, I see him! I see him, he's right there! Okay, hold on, hold on, hold on. Orangy, you got this. Oh yeah, that's definitely him. All right, miss me, miss
me, now you gotta kiss me. Oh yes! Oh no! Reload quickly! Quickly! Reload! Yeah! (laughs) Yeah! Orangy did it, you guys! We got #1 Victory Royale! Woo hoo! First time ever. All right, you guys, thank
you so much for watching. Until next time, later hot potaters. (upbeat techno music) 