- [Camera man] Go go go go go! - Yes, yes yes stay
here, stay here. - [Mark] Dude, just
saw a tarantula hawk, did you see it? - I didn't see it, no. - [Mark] Oh my gosh,
I hope he gets it. Careful! He's gonna get it. He sees it. (Coyote screams) What happened? Go, go, go! - [Coyote] (screams
in pain) Oh no! - [Mark] What's wrong,
did you catch it? - Yeah I caught it! But the bad news is I caught something else too. - Oh my goodness. That is the worst cholla
spike I've ever seen. - Hold on a second, hold on,
- Oh my gosh - I don't wanna get stung
by the tarantula hawk. - [Mark] Oh, they're
all over you man! (Coyote screams) - (Screams) Hold on a second,
let me get this under control. - [Mark] Oh my gosh. How you gonna get
all of those off? - Hold on, hold on. Cup him under there. - They're all over here. - Oh, boy. That was not good.
- Oh my gosh. - Hold on, I'm like in them. Back up. Oh my gosh, man.
- They're all over my legs. Oh my gosh, they're
everywhere. Dude. - [Coyote] Okay. - [Camera man] Did you get
the tarantula hawk at least? - I did, I did, I caught
the tarantula hawk, but... - [Mark] They're all over me. (Coyote grunts in pain) Oh my gosh that's the worst. That's the worst cholla
attack I've ever seen. - Oh guys this is bad. - That's really bad. - How many are on my back? - A lot. Maybe like 10. One on your foot. - Oh man, the one on my
arm's really hurtin'. Well you know in that
instance when you need to catch the animal, you
don't really think about it. You just make the
catch, and I did. I caught the tarantula hawk. - [Mark] Where is
it, by the way? - I wrapped it up,
it's in the net. It's right over there. Oh my gosh, okay. Well, I guess there's a
lesson to be learned here. Always watch where you're going, and you guys have seen me get pricked in the hand
before by a cholla. This, might as well
get a little education in while we can.
(inhales sharply) This is a teddy bear cholla. Watch it, you've got
'em on your feet. There are jumping cholla, and
there are teddy bear cholla. This is the teddy bear variety, and it is not soft and
cuddly like a teddy bear. Mark, I got a multitool on
the side of my pouch here. - [Mark] Alright. - Put your camera down. - [Mark] Okay. - Chance, you keep filming this, Mark I'm gonna need your help,
man, I can't move my arm. - [Mark] Alright,
hold on a second. - Get the multitool,
off of there. (groans) I feel like a
pincushion right now. If you're out here
in the desert hiking, and you wander into a cholla, they say you can use a hair comb to get cholla off of you. But, as we know, I
don't have any hair. So I don't usually
carry a comb with me. But I do have a multitool. And, yeah there we go, alright get these ones off my boots. Yeah those ones,
those don't hurt. Those are into the rubber
and the side of my keens. If you guys thought getting
quilled by a porcupine was bad, this hurts so much worse. Oh, my leg! (groans) - Try to do it in
one sweep. One, two! (screams) Oh that hurt! - You alright? That's one. - Oh, man! This is like pulling off
the worst bandaid ever. Alright, yeah. (Mark screams) Oh, no! (laughs) Now it's in your hand! - Coyote?
- Yeah. - Why do you always get
me in these situations? - Sorry, man. - Okay, hold on. (groans) Nope, nope don't shake 'em off. You don't shake 'em off. - No, no don't shake it off. Here, why don't you
put the multitool, - Hold on.
- Can you get it off yourself? - Yeah, yeah, hold on. - Oh, guys we are... - (Inhales) It keeps
getting worse, the weight, it's like going in there. - Yeah, it's not fun is it? - Alright, like a bandaid? - Like a bandaid. (Mark screams)
(Coyote laughs) - Oh my gosh that hurts. - Imagine what I'm
going through right now? - Oh my gosh it feels so
much worse for you right now. - Oh, first blood, first blood. - I'm gonna be a lot
more careful now. - Okay. (inhales) - Nervous now. (Coyote screams) - Let me, hold on, let
me explain to you guys why this hurts so much. This is not just like
a needle or a pin going into your skin. The end of these spines,
and the spines on the cholla are nothing more
than modified leaves, but they have barbs,
microscopic barbs on their ends. So every time we pull one off, it is yanking out chunks
of skin and flesh. Wow this one in my arm
is going to hurt so bad. It is so deep in there I
almost can't squeeze my hand. - Alright, I think
I gotta get this. I'm afraid you're gonna
get hit in the face. So I don't want that. They're so sharp. (Coyote screams) (Mark laughs) Sorry, man. - Did you get it? - Did it come off?
- No. - No? Oh my gosh. - Alright. Ready, ready? - Yeah, yeah. (gasps) - Oh, no, it just kind of
fell down and stuck in again. Dude I am so sorry. (breathless gasp) Oh my god. - [Chance] What was that noise? - I don't know! It hurts so bad! - This one's gonna be bad,
I'm gonna get this one. - Ow! Did you get it? - [Mark] Yeah I got that one. Let me try and get this one. (Coyote screams) Alright, I'm gonna
get this one I think. And then pull back at me? - [Coyote] I guess so. (screams) Yoinks! Think we gotta get
this big one out first and that one last
because I'm afraid you might flick
that one at my face. And I think this
one's gonna come out because you can pull it
that way and I can... - [Mark] Okay, can you
just put your arm out? (Coyote gasps) Oh, no you can't. - Oh, I can barely move my arm,
it's like it's hit a nerve. I'm having trouble
like squeezing my arm. - [Mark] He casts
off, one two three! (Coyote screams and exhales) - Oh, wow! That one hurt. I'm glad we save this
one for last though 'cause I don't think this
one's in there that deep. Not as deep as that one. - [Mark] That's brutal. Alright, let's
get this last one. - Alright, last one, last one. Let me turn it like that
so you don't get it. Don't hit my face. - [Mark] One, two, three go! (Coyote screams) - Get it? (screams) No, ouch! - [Mark] That was in there. Whew, that was excitement. - Wow, guys. That was seriously intense. But the good news, wait here. (laughs) Woo! Come here, buddy! - [Mark] You got it. - I got it! And then that there,
that is a tarantula hawk. - [Mark] Whoa, careful. - [Coyote] No, I know, we gotta
be careful not to get stung. Didn't expect to make this, I mean what are we gonna
call this, an On Location? - [Mark] Yeah. - Yeah, I guess this
is an On Location, Us out here trying to
catch a tarantula hawk, made the catch but fell
into a teddy bear cholla. (slow-motion grunts of pain) Gosh that one hurt! Nothing like having an epic
ending to an awesome day here in the Sonoran Desert. I'm Coyote Peterson. Be brave, stay wild, stay away from
the teddy bear cholla, we'll see you on
the next location. Woo, we got it! I just caught a tarantula hawk, which is said to have the
second most painful sting in the insect kingdom. I think we all know what's
going to happen next. And don't forget,
subscribe so you can join me and the crew on our
next big adventure. 