Guys breaking news YouTube just sent me a letter. We just got the award for "funniest show on YouTube." I know it's crazy. it's crazy guys I know. J- Relax. Relax. Settle down. Settle down. We've always had this highbrow comedy to this show. We've always b-been very...Uh uh- Intellectualious beings. intellectualious? intellectualious. I don't think that's a word. ah ha- I don't think that's a word.. intellectualious? let's see, uh search "Ravioli review." I don't think there's gonna be a single thing here if there is oh my god, I'd be blown away Oh, come on, man. Jeez. The ravioli review market really has gone downhill (I miss the good old day of watching your favorite Ravioli-Tubers) Challenge just "challenge". All right, you know what? I'm down. You know we did like the 3 a.m challenge but I think we just looked up like the phrase "3 a.m". I don't think we actually do the word chal- OH! "The 600 Gum Challenge" excuse me *with amazement* today we're going to be doing something a little different we're gonna be doing the 600 gum challenge. There are 600 little bite- bite- *laughs* 600 little gu- gum bites in here. little gums. C R U N C H *mumble* Those sound way too crunchy to be gum. I think this guy's eating gravel and he's just like I found this jar of gravel- That isn't, is that gum? Holy shit. Alright, I don't even gonna lie. That's a lot of gum, dude (quite a lot of gum) What! That is not that is though not the color gum should be. "FOOD CHALLENGE. cheeseburger challenge" All right. What's going on? *rubbish* (too bored to sub it all) YEAAAH! *Circle laughs* *mocking* YEAAAH! *Laughs* C    L    A    P That clap tra- that's pretty good. I like that transition I'm gonna try that *clap* and we're back with another episode (10/10 clap transition) This is gonna make me hungry. I don't care what you guys say. I know like (with) McDonald's people are like "ohh. the meats made out of worms an- an- and people" But like I don't care wha- I don't care what you have to say. A McDonald's like cheeseburger has a special taste to it. (It sure does) Is that Diet Coke? If he's eating 20 cheeseburgers and then washing it down with a Coke Zero? Like. he's like that's where I draw the line. I'll eat 20 cheeseburgers, But if you think I'm gonna have a calorie filled coca-cola, you're fuckin crazy! *I'm sorry blah blah* You didn't let me down. All right, I don't know how many you ate. Looks like you ate, Maybe like ten. I mean max I can probably eat is like three so, you know what you're you're fine (I could probably eat about 7) You're fucking fine. And you know what, you're gonna live another day Now you failed a challenge, but at least you're gonna live. *laughs* "The Drake challenge drunk." What's the Drake challenge? O o F my knee Wha- What?. Oh my God, look how they skinned their knee. like hitting the asphalt and- Ohh look at scrape- Oh. That just sent the chill down my spine. 160 piece chicken nuggets! You could take this and put it in a filter and It be like a Renaissance painting. If you were to Photoshop- Like someone just sitting there and like a nice pose eating a McDonald's hamburger That would be I would hang that above a fireplace. *Laughs* "You should have looked up "but then this happened...."" That's pretty good Oh, oh my god. Undertale RP under - holy fuck. ah can't catch me sons of bitches, haha "How are u pregnant when u have a boys nono spot?" (excuse me. what?) OH nO "Does an epic Sans blast" (YoUR'rE GonNA hAve A bAd TimE) *laughs* No! Does this person know me? *laughs* Oh my God, what is happening? This episode i- is already a little crazy. "CircletoonsHD is here guys are you blind or something?" -here to RP *coughs* Oh my God, he has my channel up. OOOH NO... I'm just gonna let them have their fun. Okay be good. Have fun. Drink water (Staying hydrated is very important) *weird sounds* "Hey guys-" shut the fuck up past circle shut the FUCK up. You always want to come in and say " oH hEy GuYs" (You tell 'em) It's annoying! search up "OOF." Yea- I'll search it uuhuhuhuuh (mental disorder) I'll do a little bit of OOF'ing (He's speaking the language of the gods) *laughs* What was he do- I love the sound towards the end. sounded kind of like uh- kind of like Perry the platypus. *wheeze* Is that his pet draugr? "Okay. I just I guess necromancy isn't very useful" Y    E     E     T Get me a win? (Hey can somebody help me get a win in ForkKnife) *kid trying to get a carry in FortNut* (Just try again kiddo I believe in you <3) P L E A S E God, sometimes they really be like that though. Look up NSFW. *erotic oooh* Time to lose my AdSense. I fucked up. I fucked up spelling an acronym. This is gonna be good -video W- W- What? This is the lowest res video It can't even go above 144p. Hey guys, which pixel were you watching? I'm watching the pixel up here. That's my favorite *laughs* (I was watching the blue pixel in the top right corner) OOH Rant. Oh, I like rant (Gotta love that drama) I'm not sure if we've done rant before again if I'm- if I'm reusing some of these, because it's hard to remember what we've done What we haven't, I'm sorry (the realest G) WHA- Just become a fucking Martian? if you're just gonna completely skip how you just put on the most futuristic pair of headphones. then we're gonna end the video here. that might look like a demon coming out of the seventh gate of, Ganesha's hellworld, but I think that's actually the coolest shit ever Imagine if you are just putting these headphones. NO ONE! would fuck with you! people would be like give me your money and you would be like, *mechanic noises* And you put on these things and they'll be like "fuck! he's goddamn Iron Man!" (I would not mess with that guy) The new Boomerang rant? *Mouth full of cotton* "I AM DO RANT ABOUT BOORANG CHNAL" (Sorry about making fun of you) *Processing* I mean, yeah, when Boomerang launch- when Boomerang had "There own block" (I think) on Cartoon Network D O G C A T I'm just loving that the description says love Sans, cuz I'm right there with you. How can you not love Sans? Oh fuck! look up "please" Please. Hell Yeah, please notice this? Okay. Alright. Hey, it looks like he's buying onions maybe potatoes? (Looks like onions to me) What was I supposed to notice? "Dishonest fruit seller is selling fruits." Oh my God, Can we like make that a new fresh like, slang. like you know. how like "haters gonna hate" was really big. can we be like "dishonest fruit sellers selling fu-" *laughs* like anytime someone lies to you, or anytime someone's just trying to give you the runaround be like U H    K A "Dishonest fruit sellers selling fruits." Alright pal it's gonna be it for this video I hope you enjoyed it as much as I enjoyed making it comment down below something I should search try to be a little original but not too crazy where you know, I'm not gonna get any results So really let's try find that perfect balance of like stupid shit, but stupid shit that will get us results Okay, that's that's my quest for you guys. Alright, and I'll see you guys in the next video. Peace (If you're reading this just know you are loved, and have a good day, or night >3<) (it took me so long to make this ;~; ) 