- If you're a smartphone enthusiast, you've probably heard about big name Chinese phone
manufacturers like ZTE and Huawei being restricted from the US market. So, it may not be terribly surprising that a Chinese app has now
come under fire as well. I'm talking about none other
than TikTok, the app best known for poorly singing teenagers
and viral dance offs. (laughing, exclaiming) But why is TikTok, of all things, suddenly under so much scrutiny? Well, certain US officials
have described it as a potential national security threat. (silly music) But how could that be? (silly music) Well, the reason the US
and some of its allies are so concerned about Chinese technology is the possibility that back doors could be built into Chinese-controlled
software or hardware to allow mass spying against
Western citizens and interests. And although Huawei, for
example, is a private company, they've faced criticism in the past for getting too much support from China's communist government, leading some to worry that
their communication technology could be used for shady doings. Now, TikTok is also owned by a private Chinese
company called ByteDance, and, like Huawei, they're not officially an arm of the government in Beijing. But the concerns about undue influence from Chinese authorities remain. For example, China forced
ByteDance to shut down a different app centered around
memes and videos in 2018, simply because it didn't like the content. ByteDance then issued a
statement in which it attempted to appease the Chinese communist party, and promised to hire party
members, as well as increased the number of employees
working as censors. So it looks like fears that ByteDance might end up becoming pressured to be a tool of the Chinese government aren't completely unfounded. And while it's true that US tech companies have gotten in hot water with the American government
before over content, not to mention the NSA
surveillance revelations that came out some years back, Chinese lack of data protection laws or an independent judiciary
with due process guarantees, as well as China Internet security law, which gives the government
very broad powers to collect data from tech companies, has raised concerns that it would be far easier for the Chinese communist party to get its hands on any data it wants from ByteDance and other
domestic technology firms, even if the data itself was collected and stored outside of China, as ByteDance claims is
the case with TikTok. But, of course, that's
a lot of speculation. Is this actually what's
going on with TikTok? Well, so far, there's no evidence that the Chinese government
has collected data en masse from TikTok or its users. And even if it did, it's
important to look at what kind of information
they'd be getting. TikTok does collect IP
addresses and location data, but lots of apps do the same thing. Instead, it's far more likely that more valuable information, such as financial records
and physical addresses, would come from other sources, such as security breaches
of government agencies, as well as the Credit Bureau leaks that we all found out about in 2017. But another potentially
huge issue with TikTok isn't related to data collection or the use of the app as a way
to hack phones or networks. Other huge social media platforms, namely Facebook and Twitter, have faced criticism for
being slanted politically, or not doing enough to control the flow of misinformation about sensitive topics. And there's a fear that
the Chinese government is already using TikTok to
control and spin conversations about issues that people care about by forcing ByteDance to,
well, dance to its tune. In 2019, there was a report that TikTok moderators were being forced to restrict negative comments
about the Chinese system, as well as content related to
the Hong Kong protests and, unsurprisingly, about the
Tiananmen Square Massacre of 1989. But, regardless of what TikTok does or does not have
the potential to become, both the US army and
Navy have banned the app, and the State Department
is said to be looking at a nationwide prohibition. India, which has also been at loggerheads with China recently, has already banned TikTok, citing similar national security concerns. I just wonder what will happen if it does get banned in the US. There's probably gonna be a
lot of really upset Gen Z-ers. But, instead of voicing their
displeasure at the ballot box, maybe they'll find a
way to resurrect Vine. I miss Vines. I'm kidding, I don't miss Vines, that was just in the script. I never really got it. But I'm old. Speaking of old, these
sponsor segues never get old. Check out Private Internet Access, the VPN that masks your IP address and encrypts your Internet traffic. PIA has reliable service,
with over 2,700 servers in 47 countries, and no bandwidth caps. They offer configurable encryption and an Internet kill switch
to keep you in control of your connection and your privacy. And when you combine PIA
with private browsing, you can even make websites think that you're in a different country. You can connect up to 10 devices
at once with their clients for Windows, Mac, Android, iOS, and Linux, and you can stay protected with MACE, their built-in malware
and tracking blocker. Try it out risk-free for 30 days, just go to lmd.gg/piatechquickie. 