An Athenian named Thucydides wrote a history
of the Peloponnesian War. The work is a chronological history, with
a mix of philosophical overtones and second-hand reproductions of speeches from figures of
the time. He described events in 427 BCE, when Athens
put down a rebellion of the Mytileneans. Unable to cope with the imperial forces, the
Mytileneans surrendered (1,254). Back in Athens, a man named Cleon, described
by Thucydides as “the most violent man in Athens”, ‘carried’ a motion to not only
punish the conspirators, but to put all male Mytileneans to death, and enslave women and
children (1,259). However, the Assembly, second-guessing the
decision to punish all Mytileneans, reconvened to take another vote. And on this occasion, Cleon rose to admonish
the Assembly for their softness in the face of a premeditated rebellion. Their democracy would be incapable of empire
if they listened to equivocation from gifted speakers rather than the wisdom of the common
man (1,260). And so the people of the Assembly should stick
to the original decision, made in “the fury of the moment”, to execute all male Mytileneans,
and enslave the rest. If..you determine to rule, you must carry
out your principal and punish the Mytileneans...without yielding to present weakness...punish them
as they deserve, and teach your other allies by a striking example that the penalty of
rebellion is death.” The next to speak was Diodotus, who opposed
the mass execution. The Assembly should be wary of speakers who
use the ‘popular arts’ to dismiss proper deliberation of the issues (1,263). The punishment of death for the Mytileneans
would serve as no deterrent. In fact, it would teach the opposite lesson:
if the leaders of a city rebel, all people should fight to the very last whether they
support the cause or not, because the Athenians would come and kill everyone regardless. On the other hand, a surrendered yet intact
city could still “refund expenses, and pay tribute afterwards”. The Assembly should consider it “ far more
useful for the preservation of our empire to put up with injustice voluntarily, than
to put to death, however justly, those whom it is our interest to keep alive,” (1,266). Ultimately, the Assembly voted with Diodotus,
punishing the original conspirators, but leaving the rest of the Mytileneans to live. You might believe the point of this story
is that democracy leads to better outcomes. But might I just add? Cleon, the famous demagogue, appears in the
historical record on multiple occasions (2). His populism and infamy are well known. Diodotus? Well, he appears only here in Thucydides. If his level-headedness extended beyond this
speech, it’s lost to history. One unmistakably positive development in American
history has been the gradual inclusion of more citizens in the election process: for
white men the removal of property requirements to vote in the early 19th century, women’s
suffrage in 1920, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 forbid voter discrimination based on
race, and the 26th amendment ensured 18 year-olds fighting in Vietnam could vote for the politicians
sending them there (3). Though the aspirational words of the constitution
foreshadowed expanded participation in elections, the original system set out by the founders
operated with many limitations on its democratic elements, and not just on who could vote,
but exactly how votes counted. The only straightforward elections were to
the House of Representatives. Voters chose representatives and they went
to Washington, no democratic filter. By design, every other part of the federal
government was to pass through a selection filter. Voters didn’t directly elect senators; they
chose state legislators who elected the two Senators. Voters didn’t directly elect the president;
they advised electors of the electoral college, who then practiced independence selecting
a president. Voters didn’t elect Supreme Court Justices;
the indirectly-elected president, with advice and consent of the indirectly-elected Senate,
nominated Justices to the high court. Democracy was intentionally minimized. Isolating the direct will of voters to one
half of one branch of the government, the House of Representatives, was the explicit
intent of the founders. Just as the founders feared the tyranny of
a monarch, they feared the tyranny of mob rule. The quotes sound shocking to modern ears. At the constitutional convention in 1787,
a resolution was proposed which would make the future American Congress elected by the
people. The immediate reaction was basically: ‘Election
by the people? Are you crazy?’. Roger Sherman of Connecticut was first to
speak up: “The people he said, immediately should have as little to do as may be about
the Government.” Future vice president Elbridge Gerry agreed:
“The evils we experience flow from the excess of democracy. The people do not want virtue, but are the
dupes of pretended patriots.” (5) The sentiment continued after the Constitution’s
ratification. John Adams, the second president, wrote in
1814: “Remember, democracy never lasts long. It soon wastes, exhausts, and murders itself.” (4). John Marshall, fourth Chief Justice of the
Supreme Court, observed that, “Between a balanced republic and a democracy, the difference
is like that between order and chaos.” That final distinction between a republic
and a democracy is where we need to place our attention. Let’s clarify something. A 1787 understanding of a republic was different
than today. Today, we think of republics as governments
elected by the people. But at the time of the founding, a republic,
at the most basic, meant a government without a King or Queen (6). The rights of citizens to participate played
no role in whether the government fit the definition or not. So yes, a representative democracy would fit
that definition, but so too would the Republic of Florence, where authority often lay not
with the people, but with guilds and powerful families. And if the prevailing wisdom during the founding
of the US was that direct democracies like Athens were prone to self-destruction, the
same held for republics. History served as a graveyard of all sorts
of republics in a world dominated by imperial monarchies. And so the challenge was, as far as the founders
saw it: how to set up a republic that could protect things important to them: life, liberty,
property- long-term. Inserting democratic elements into the new
republic was, in their eyes, a risky addition to an already precarious form of government. James Madison, the largest intellectual influence
on the American constitution, had no issue criticizing the few examples of direct democracy
in history; They were, he wrote in Federalist #10, “as short in their lives as they have
been violent in their deaths.” Pure democracy, Madison said, would inevitably
suffer at the hands of faction, by which he meant a self-interested group moving the majority
towards poor decisions through impulse and passion- rule by partisans and the mob. He argued that the best option for controlling
the effects of faction was to form a large republic with a limited “scheme of representation”,
a democratic element at its heart. The way to prevent violations of basic liberties
by factions was to spread the factions over a geographically large republic. If a populist mob in New Hampshire elected
a demagogue to Congress, the odds of the movement gaining traction and electing a representative
all the way down in Virginia were slim to none, making it hard for them to impact national
policy. Therefore, the new and large American republic
could have a democratic element at its heart, the House of Representatives, because its
geography would help prevent the formation of an overbearing and liberty-destroying majority. And so, taking Madison’s lead, the founders
set up a large republic, with limited democracy and limited participation. And we can set that system on an admittedly
imperfect spectrum of pure republic and pure democracy. On the right side, the pure democracy in which
every citizen participates in every decision. The closest approximation we have is ancient
Athens, where a significant number of men could partake in the Assembly. On the left, a pure republic, where the populace
has no direct say in governance, but there’s no king or queen. Again, we have to approximate with Florence
and its guilds and powerful families. The new American republic would tend pretty
far to the left on the spectrum, as the popular will was filtered by exclusion and institution. But of course the United States would not
be stagnant. Developments would make the system more democratic
over time. As we noted before, through constitutional
amendment and legislation, more Americans were able to exercise their right to vote
and to participate as citizens. Notably, the 17th amendment meant that Senators
would be directly elected by the people, not by state legislatures- so as of 1913 the entire
legislative branch was popularly elected, not just the House of Representatives. But that still leaves of 2 of 3 branches of
government as quite distant from the popular will, the Judiciary and the Executive. I want to focus on the executive in particular. Because to describe a modern president of
the United States as merely a distant and indirectly elected official would deny a reality
before our very eyes. To the domestic population and the world,
the president is the face of the United States. Their opinions can dominate the news cycle
and policy agenda. They commit troops around the world, take
credit or blame for the economy, help or hinder healing in times of national crisis, speak
to us on a yearly basis about how the country is doing, and feature in the stories we tell
each other about ourselves. Presidents occupy a space in the national
psyche of someone democratically, directly elected. And yet, they’re not. What can explain this disparity? We’ve established that the haven for democracy
in the American Republic was supposed to be the House of Representatives. The founders envisioned citizens having a
much closer connection to their local member of congress than to their president. By the way, given such a mundane name as president
because the main function would be just that- presiding over the policy decisions of the
Congress. The president in this vision, or maybe fantasy
of the founders, would be an enlightened statesman, known by the general population only insofar
as he had gathered governing experience and served the country well. He would recognize no political party and
harbor no deep ambitions of power. Selected by the wise men of the electoral
college, the president would blend into the background with few explicit powers, and would
avoid what they called the ‘popular arts’ to influence the public. He would be basically George Washington. But as we know, the presidency didn’t evolve
this way. The office expanded in influence with only
a couple pauses in between, and most presidents retained and broadened the powers of their
predecessor. There are many ways scholars approach this
so-called imperial presidency, from the expansion of the country generally, necessity in times
of civil unrest, and individuals that set precedents for every president that came after
them. But one overlooked way of examining how presidential
power and influence has changed over time is the way individuals become candidates for
president in the first place: selection by a major political party. That selection process by the political parties,
though outside of the constitution itself, has become more democratic with time, changing
expectations for presidents and altering the balance in our system of government. For a long time, the public played no role
in selecting presidential candidates. Members of congress from the major political
parties gathered together in secret to choose their candidates for the upcoming election-
and that was it. And as elitist and exclusive as that sounds,
it was in-line with the intent of the founders for an ambitionless president that presided. The candidates tended to be insiders, and
politically experienced. On multiple occasions elections were settled
by handshakes in the House of Representatives (7). Presidential cycles looked less like a modern
general election, and more like a fraternal squabble on the floor of the UK House of Lords. So if we create another spectrum, not for
the whole political system, but just for the presidential candidate selection system, and
again place a fully democratic system on the right, where the general public has a 100%
say in who candidates for president will be- the original selection system, with members
of congress meeting in secret, would be far to the other side, a nearly 100% elite selection
process. But these secret congressional caucuses were
unsustainable, and the cult of personality surrounding one man changed it all. When president Andrew Jackson was up for reelection
in 1832, the new Democratic Party tried something quite different. General Jackson had been personally popular
with voters because of his war record in the Battle of New Orleans. This personal popularity often put him at
extreme odds with the political establishment in Congress. So for his reelection, rather than nominate
a vice presidential candidate by secret congressional caucus, his Democratic Party tried something
a little more inclusive, more democratic: they held a national convention, the first
of its kind for a major party. From now on, candidates wouldn’t be chosen
in the stuffy halls of congress by a select few, they would be chosen by all attending
members of the party in an open, participatory way. National conventions became the norm, and
major parties nominated presidential candidates this way for the next 136 years. Now in retrospect we know these national conventions
were more theater than democracy. Attendees were usually influential members
of the party, delegates bought off by party bosses, and real decision making happened
behind closed doors in smoky rooms well away from the convention floor. But at its core, it was more pluralist- more
interests were at the table, even if they were monied, well-connected, and white. Rather than just the elected political elite,
you could find broad coalitions of business, political activists, geographic groupings,
and religious cohorts. The political parties themselves were at their
strongest because they served as moderating influences on candidates who needed to appeal
to the widest cross section of interests to get nominated. Wild ambition was controlled because candidates
who might promise large changes to win the hearts of the voting public would never make
it past the business advocates at the convention. The candidates who made it out were likely
whittled advocates of something close to the status quo. If we head back to our spectrum, the national
conventions certainly moved the presidential nomination process away from the select few
making the decision, but only because now it would be the select hundreds- the select
thousands instead. The process was still closed to the general
public, and nominees could make only limited claims about wielding the popular will. For this very reason, at the turn of the 20th
century, the parties were being pushed to reform. In 1897, before entering public life, future
president Woodrow Wilson was already contemplating ways to rip the nomination system out of the
tight control of the party establishments. He was openly hostile to the national conventions,
seeing them as the process by which special interests nominated candidates with no policies
derived from the popular will. He wrote that national conventions were:
“...an incalculable number of local influences, utterly obscure to the country at large, and
unconnected, as we know, with any general party purpose or policy of which the country
can know anything...candidates, selected, not by the general voice of any party, but
upon grounds of preference which only their special friends and partisans can explain.” In short, the process for selecting presidential
candidates wasn’t democratic, and Woodrow Wilson wanted to make it so. Only then could Americans remedy the issue
of what he called ‘Leaderless Government’ (9). And so in his first annual message to congress,
president Woodrow Wilson proposed expansion to a developing phenomenon: presidential primaries:
“I urge the prompt enactment of legislation which will provide for primary elections throughout
the country at which the voters of the several parties may choose their nominees for the
Presidency without the intervention of nominating conventions.” (10). The Democratic and Republican parties of course
didn’t eliminate their national conventions, but some states were moving in Wilson’s
direction, creating a hybrid of old and new. From 1912 to 1968, in any given nomination
cycle between 12 and 20 states held presidential primaries (8). The goal of these primaries was for voters
to elect delegates to the national convention where they would help choose the party candidate. However, the reality during these years was
that the delegates sent from primaries generally played an extremely limited role in influencing
who the nominee would be. The system had budged in the direction of
democratization, but the political parties still had the final say in who their presidential
candidate would be. And it was never more clear that the parties
were still in control than at the 1968 Democratic National Convention. 14 states held primaries, which resulted in
80% of votes cast for candidates pledging to end the war in Vietnam. However, at the convention the Democratic
nomination went to Hubert Humphrey, who supported the status quo in Vietnam. More important to our discussion, he hadn’t
participated in a single primary. This contributed to the unrest outside the
convention, where anti-war protests turned violent. Humphrey’s nomination convinced many outsiders
that the old party bosses still ran the theater; the primaries were just a show on the stage. And the violence convinced many insiders that
more reforms were needed to make political parties more accountable to the popular will. The ensuing 50 years have been a cascade of
changes derived from the turbulence of 1968, and a fulfillment of Woodrow Wilson’s vision
for a national system of primaries. Both the Republican and Democratic parties
have expanded their primary systems to include all 50 states, DC, Puerto Rico, and Guam. And even though the state party organizations
and the national committees still meddle with rules and mingle with dates, there is, effectively,
a system of national binding popular primaries. It’s not purely democratic, but it is fair
to say that primary voters choose presidential candidates. It’s a system which as it evolved set up
the dark-horse candidacy of Jimmy Carter, empowered the popular movement behind Ronald
Reagan, elevated Barack Obama over the party establishment, and bent the entirety of the
Republican Party around Donald Trump. It’s a system that’s wildly different
than the secret congressional caucuses of the early republic. National conventions severed the president
from congress, and now presidential primaries sever the president from the establishment
of the political parties. With a national convention, candidates conform
to the party. But with primaries, parties conform to the
candidate. To get onto the general election ballot, candidates
have to build support with blocks of active voters and prove they can win long before
actual election day. In turn, they will have a popular mandate
from which to govern. We now see one way the presidency democratized
without direct changes to the constitution. The explicit goal of progressives like Woodrow
Wilson was to create a presidency based on popular leadership. Power would derive from the popular will,
not the institutional constraints from the Constitution. And I’m hoping that by now you’ve started
to gather what the potential consequences of something like this might be. I said earlier that the general democratization
of the American government has been unequivocally good, particularly when it comes to expanded
participation. I stand by that. However, I think it’s essential and probably
unpopular to make a much more subtle argument about the democratization of the presidential
selection system. James W. Ceasar, who wrote a comprehensive
book on this subject, pointed out a couple assumptions from advocates of a national primary
system: 1. “...the belief that the people on their
own can be fully trusted to choose leaders without the guidance of restrictive electoral
institutions.” 2. “There is the view that no serious side
effects flow from an open pursuit of the nomination, that self-interest and ambition, if they exist,
do not lead aspirants to divide and inflame the populace.” (11) Now, as to number one, can the people be fully
trusted to choose their leaders? Well, history shows humans have a rough track
record on that, but that is no reason to deny ourselves the right to try. If we grant ourselves the inalienable right
to pursue our vision of the public good, to directly choose candidates for president rather
than be bestowed with them, we’re left with the responsibility to deal with the side effects
such a system produces. The first potential side effect is the experience
gap. The national conventions generally nominated
presidents with governing experience, but who might be less interested in putting that
experience towards the direct will of the people. A primary system has the opposite problem:
candidates who are more in-tune with the will of their voters, but who might be less experienced
in actually governing. They might be able to talk the talk, but to
use a hackneyed phrase, they might not be able to ‘get things done’. Look again at the old way, the national convention. The skill set there to navigate the varied
interests of powerful stakeholders and get the nomination is similar to the act of navigating
the powerful stakeholders and governing in Washington. To contrast, the skill set to successfully
campaign in a presidential primary, the ‘popular arts’ of rhetoric and seeming sincere, are
not particularly helpful when trying to get the congress to pass that meaningful piece
of legislation, or steering a federal agency. The process of governance isn’t nearly as
lofty as campaigning. This means as primary voters, we have to question
whether what we’re being sold is realistic, and not just whether the policy is realistic,
but whether its passage is realistic. This isn’t an argument for moderation, by
the way. It is often the advocates of an unjust mooshy
‘both sides are bad’ middle ground who have stood in the way of meaningful changes
to civil rights and economic reforms. It is merely our task to listen to the promises
made by primary candidates in a holistic fashion. Otherwise we’ll find ourselves stuck with
presidents incapable of administration that involves anything other than the unilateral
jerking of a pen. Which leads nicely into side effect two: the
demagogue problem. Ceasar predicted when he wrote his book back
in the 70’s that the primaries would start to bring us factional leaders, in the Madisonian
sense. To build on that, primaries would bring us
popular leaders who would intentionally ram wedges into societal cleavages, exploit our
anger, tell us that the only way to bring true power to the people is to join the cult
of personality, break some rules, and bring down the other side. Decisions made in the fury of the moment are
for the better. The problem is inevitable. It is a flaw of humans and democracies in
particular. All I can say is that if you don’t see the
world this way, you must participate, because democracy is fragile. The country is young, and our process for
selecting presidential candidates even younger. How it evolves from here is up to us. We are living in an experiment, whether the
primary system fulfills the goal laid out by James Madison in Federalist 57 that, “The
aim of every political constitution is, or ought to be, first to obtain for rulers men
who possess most wisdom to discern, and most virtue to pursue, the common good of the society.” The founders feared that the general population
couldn’t handle the responsibilities that came when systems approached direct democracy,
that demagogues would come along and tell us angry lies to inflame the passions, use
the popular arts to whip us into factional extremes that would destroy our liberty. It is our job to prove them wrong. I love history. That’s why I’m excited to bring you something
with a lot of it: CuriosityStream. CuriosityStream is a streaming service that
offers over 2,000 documentaries and nonfiction titles from some of the world's best filmmakers,
including exclusive originals. Originally founded by John Hendricks, founder
of the Discovery Channel, it’s packed full of content about science, nature, technology,
society, and yes, lots of history. I personally enjoyed the series called, ‘Asia’s
Monarchies’, but a quick dive into the history section has ancient history, biographies,
prehistory, even niche history like megastructures and aviation. Unlimited access starts at $2.99 a month,
but for this community the first 30 days are free if you follow the link in the description
and use promo code theexploration at sign-up. So head on over to curiositystream.com/theexploration
and use promo code theexploration for 30 days free access to the world’s top documentaries
and nonfiction series. Later guys. 