You want something to eat or to drink do you want something to eat or to drink Okay, okay now, I don't have any change so Like every eye will see Thank you Yeah and Joey it meant Hey Hey, how are you? I just had a couple of things with me that I Might help y'all. I've seen out here cuz I've been commuting to work and stuff So I have a few things one thing that I know you'll probably be okay with is a little bit I just have a little bit of food and water and that might be something that can help you out And this is gonna sound a little weird but I have a brand new pair of hiking boots that I got for someone and A guy that used to stand out here and he I haven't seen him for a long time now So he's a smaller guy, but they might fit you So I want to give this to you either way just a little bit of food and water Okay, but I want you to see if these boots might fit you then I'd love for you to have them you know, and on top of that. I got some nice thick socks for you as well So I know it's been so cold. But um, I want I want you to have these if you'd like to have them You know and they're brand new and everything I just I got them for for Allen and I think those are gonna fit just fine with some nice socks on And you'll be nice and warm you think you think you'd like them? Okay Well, if you want you can have this whole bag in everything just like this so you can carry it But I just want you to have those and there those are actually donated That the money to buy them was donated to a funding website that I have set up to help the homeless here in Durham So, you know, that's that's you know, that that's from somebody else on the internet and I'm just passing it on to you But if you want to, you know, throw them in here and the socks and everything There we go. Yeah, what's your name? Tammy, my name is Andrew. It's nice to meet you. This is my friend Joe. He's not a cop. I promise But I hope that you have an excellent day Okay and if for some reason you can't use those just find someone that can and pass them on but I think they're gonna fit they Look like they're gonna do well and I hope they help you out in this nice cold weather. Yeah I know. Oh And man, yeah Yeah, yeah definitely Sure sure, all right. Well, it was nice to meet you Tammy and I hope that you have a great day. All right Thank you. Oh Yeah, it's no problem it's no problem I just want you know, everybody needs to know that somebody out there cares for them and loves them and stuff So that's that's what it's all about. Okay, but I hope that you have a great day. All right. Bye Now broke down I could ride push you out of here into the library. Yeah, give you that kill a partner quick now push you guys in there flip out real quick Please get him up out of the road right here. Like right here would be a good spot. Yeah Yes, but neutral and even like it right here I parked my bike there's a pretty wide spot right there. Oh I get you Yeah, well you got turn the key a little bit but he's there. Yeah now you're putting here There you go and roll it right up in front my bike That's easy That's Bugis fight you got much room I hear for the tow truck no nobody hit you're nothing I should be good No, I don't blame me. It's hot too. So I Hopefully should be here. Now. You got a nice easy space - won't get here. Don't worry. That's okay. It's scary Have a good day. I Don't do much fun they sort of the way You know, oh you're touching it No It's just like blow around the other side again, right Sherman needs mr. Thorns on them too. Great. Try to hand it to somebody to cheer them up get them shanked my rose It's kind of the opposite of what I want to complicate That bad day for somebody taking a little traffic or something I've been great like you have this Long-hair Probably make you sit down in here without murdering them too badly Yeah, I just can't see myself it under Mornin thank you On the freeway, it's a little bit either I lost a pair. I had like reinforced with eggs and metal mounts now Worth it You two I can see now I You're welcome, how did I say? Have a nice day Excuse me. Have a nice day Love all In the center down Hi, good morning, I love your license plate and I wanted to give this to you I Can get it How do I stay actually here? Do we all have one? Last three. Have a nice day What's that What Not around here honestly like not in this part of town you pass them all back there the malls not too far away Are you not from here? Hmm You know 30 minutes away from DC and Baltimore each way. Those are your best bets More scenic like Annapolis. Maybe it's like 30 minutes south. There's really nothing right here. Good luck, though. Have a nice day Come, come ! Happy Children's Day -Thank you -Your welcome -Do you have a son? -ye ye I have -that's for him then for the Children's Day -Children's Day -For the girl, can I give her ? Oh, got stuck a litle bit O, ye there's just a motorcyclist act of kindness, sharing litle toys -There you go, have a nice day! -Take it! For Chilrden's Day -You're welcome, have a nice day -For Children's Day -Your welcome, have a nice day -And it's a pity that I need to give this mascot away, such a sweet ari -On occasion Children's Day for a kiddy -Good morning, for Children's Day. Oh I didn't mean to scare her. -You're welcome, have good day -Hello excuse me, for Children's Day -For free? -For free yeah, you're welcome -You have a kid meybe ? No...? Well that will be for you then. -Excuse me, for Children's Day. -Ah he's shy -You can give it to him at home -Good morning, on occasion Children's Day I would like to give the girl this toy squirrel -You're welcome, have a nice day -Good morning, on occasion Children's Day I would like to give the girl this toy piggy Excuse me, excuse me ! On occasion Children's Day I would like to give the girl this toy -She won't get scared ? There you go. -Thank you very much -You're welcome, have a good one -To who? -This lady over there -That lady? -Yes -Alright -Well these are mostly for kids but there you go, for you miss -Thanks bub -Excuse me for a second! -On occasion Children's Day -Don't be scared -Hehe she's shy -Thank you -You're welcome, have a nice day -Ey kid! Kid! -Take it -Children's Day -You're welcome -Come! -And there you have for Children's day -Thank you -You're welcome -You're welcome, have good day -Cya, booyah 