Hey guys before the video starts, I wanna let you know I have new merch down in the description below. This includes brand new shirt designs and a Demonetization man pin. We worked super hard to make this happen so I hope you guys really love it plus with YouTube being as crazy as it is buying the stuff really supports my channel. Thanks guys. I also want to give a quick shout out to this video's Man, I am tired of people bringing up games they played as a kid and it always being the same few *struggling to breathe* Do YoU GuYs RemEmBEr M-maRiO KaRT™️? Yes. G-Oh, WhaT AboUt GoLdeNeYE™️? Yes, everyone on this planet has played Goldeneye™️! so, I think it's time to talk about some games that I grew up playing that not many people talk about and I think it's time that they crawl out of the sewers and into the spotlight and I'm not talking about the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles™️ game because everyone Remembers that too! while you were off playing super DUMB Bros™️ I was busy playing Digimon™️ Rumble Arena. this came out on the PlayStation™️ a little while after smash 64 and the gameplay is definitely meant to mimic smash 64, but somehow they managed to make it, like even more simple than Smash Brothers™️. It's like two attacks in this game. However, it did have a pretty cool mechanic where you could digivolve mid-game But it paused it for like 10 seconds and it got annoying pretty quick *another struggle to breathe* "My potato with ear wings is now a full-grown man!" The items in this game are like Digimon cards, so if you pick up the fire one, you shoot fire And if you pick up like a minus symbol, it means that... I have no idea what it does. Another platform fighter I played a lot as a kid was Medabots™️ AX for the Game Boy™️ Advance This games pretty fucking good. *rap incoming* customize your robots, battle of the robots, beat them up, Take the limbs make, another robot. That's how you play Medabots™️ A *laugh*. now that I think about it It's kind of messed up that your medabot is just an amalgamation of war trophies from fallen robots. But whatever man I'm just trying to become a caterpillar. Gee-whiz, this handheld game came out 16 years ago and it still has more options than anthem. "mmmh yeah, this low amp(?) fruit is juicy Alright, now that we're past two babies first fighting games, Let's talk about a serious hardcore game for true gamers. Booooh, you know I'm talking about Hamtaro™️ Ham-Hams unite for the Game Boy™️ Color! in this game You play as Hamtaro™️ and you're tasked with bringing all of your friends back to the hideout but here's the twist, Hamtaro™️ has forgotten his entire native language. So the game has you learn words and phrases of ham-chat through other hamsters by either completing puzzles or doing simple tasks. it's kind of like a mini puzzler adventure collectathon and don't let the cute visuals fool you it's actually Really engrossing and fun to this day. now, can I ask you a question? Have you ever played a ps1 fishing game? *calm fishing sounds and music* EMERGENCY!!!!!! *Catching a fucking Tyrranosaurus Rex with anxious music!!!!* 8,8 tons Monster! The PlayStation™️ 1 had SO many fishing games and they ranged from normal day at the river to absolutely crazy! Specifically the games I remember playing the most as a kid was Reel fishing™️ and Big ol' bass™️! Man, I don't even know what kind of fish this is. I'm just now starting to realize that a lot of the games I remember the most from my childhood were probably from a bargain bin, but whatever bargain bins need love too, okay? I mean how else would I found games like Spectrobes™️? Yeah, this game had some issues with the combat, with the monsters being to the left and right of you is kind of weird, but how cool was it to go to planet to planet digging up new monsters with the touchscreen and bringing them back to life? Say what you want, but literally blowing the dust away on your fossils BLEW me away as a kid. O-ho-ho-ho! What did I find here? Is it a little cube? And to be honest, the designs on some of these creatures are actually pretty good still. "if you're telling me right now You don't like Spikeo, you can leave, you can turn off the video right now Okay? You can fucking go you, can take that bullshit and you can leave". I remember as a kid, I had this guy called Naguzoro or something like that, and even to this day I still think he's one of the coolest designs in any video game. blegh, whatever I guess Pokemon's™️ better They got all the good designs like Gurdurr. Eh-a dude, that's holding the metal girder. That's great. So good. I think what we can learn from this, is it doesn't matter if a game is popular or made by triple-a studio What matters is the fun and enjoyment you get out of it! Unless it's Oddworld™️ Abe's odysee for the PlayStation™️ 1 because that game gave me NIGHTMARES as a child. Nothing, nothing in the world could have prepared me for that. Well, hello there, dear viewer or caption editor. did you enjoy the video? If so, click one of these links on the screen to enjoy some funny sketches! See ya never probably! 