[♪ INTRO] Fair warning: If you don’t like thinking
about zits and the stuff that comes out of them, this episode might be a little too gross. Picture the last zit you had. But not a baby one — a real juicy sucker, right there on your forehead. We’ve all had them, and many of us have
spent more than a few minutes squeezing them into
oblivion in front of the bathroom mirror. When a zit finally bursts, it can give people
a really satisfying rush. But this love of pimple popping isn’t just
limited to personal acne: It’s a phenomenon, complete with YouTube channels and even a TV series. But why? Why is this so satisfying? And why do people love watching other people do it so much? On one level, the answer seems to be pretty
simple: It sometimes feels good to pop a zit. Although no studies have looked at pimple
popping directly, a number of researchers have investigated
other forms of compulsive skin picking. And they’ve found that picking at your skin can trigger your brain to release the chemical
dopamine. Dopamine plays a huge role in motivating reward-based behavior. When it’s released, the brain interprets
it as a signal that you’ve done something right, and you generally feel motivated to do that
thing again. So when you see the goop come rushing out of the pimple, your brain might think of it
as an accomplishment. And the next time a big whitehead springs
up, you could find yourself getting up close and personal with the bathroom mirror. For some, though, the need to pick may go
beyond wanting to feel satisfied. In some cases, the act itself might actually be soothing or reduce tension and anxiety. For example, in a small 2015 study with forty-seven
people, researchers found that participants were more
likely to do things like skin-picking, hair-pulling,
and nail-biting when they were frustrated or bored. The effect was especially significant for
those who typically had trouble controlling these
behaviors, but it was there for the control group, too. Since this was an exploratory study with a small sample size, more research would help
back up this idea. But it does seem to make sense. After all, if popping zits does release dopamine, it’s reasonable that you’d feel an urge
to do it when you’re otherwise not feeling super
great. Now, all that might explain why some people have a fascination with picking at their own
skin, but the Internet is obsessed with watching
other people’s zits pop, too. And… yeah, we’re just not going to show
any clips of that. You can search YouTube for yourself if you
want. The bigger question is why people enjoy this
so much. It’s possible that watching these videos
might release some dopamine, or that it could be
relaxing. But there might be something larger going
on here, too. As humans, we often like to watch or do things that make us experience undesirable emotions or reactions, like disgust. There’s even a term for this: benign masochism. Benign masochism is the idea that we like negative experiences only when we know nothing bad will happen to us. In these scenarios, your brain initially thinks that what you’re watching or doing is dangerous or threatening and reacts accordingly. Like, when you see a close-up of someone’s
pimple, you might be overcome with waves of disgust, and might even feel the urge to run out of
the room. Then, when your brain realizes that everything is actually fine and no harm will come to
you, you get a jolt of pleasure. It’s still not clear how this works neurologically, but researchers suggest that benign masochism is also why you might like eating spicy peppers or riding huge roller coasters. Two things that, honestly, sound more pleasant than watching zit videos. Also, just for the record? Picking at your zits is totally normal, but
there are reasons dermatologists don’t recommend doing it
yourself. When you do, you risk infection, scarring, and generally making the pimple more irritated. So leave that zit alone! Maybe ride a roller coaster. Eat something spicy! Or watch a documentary. If you want to learn more about the strange
things humans do and why, you can check out CuriosityStream. They’re a subscription streaming service
with thousands of documentaries and films. And while none of them are about popping zits, they are fascinating. In 2015, for example, they came out with a
film called Maestro, which follows one of the world’s
most famous musical directors. It covers classical music in a really thoughtful and insightful way, and you can learn a lot
about culture and history because of it! [♪ OUTRO] 