I mentioned in passing in a previous video that I could get good laminar flow from my kitchen taps, which is nice But I also noticed something really strange recently Not just from this particular kitchen tap, but from any laminar flow really coming from a faucet. Watch this. Look what happens when I put my finger into the stream of water. I get these ripples above my finger Look as I move my finger down the ripples get tighter And as I move up the ripples get broader Strange My kitchen isn't the best environment to investigate this sort of phenomena. So I set something up in my studio I really wanted to see if we can figure out where these ripples come from But I also wanted to capture a really good example of it The first thing you need is you need that flow of water to be really stable Really consistent I managed to achieve that with this funnel and just some cloth over the bottom of it You get this beautiful laminar flow from this setup a lot of other considerations as well. But look, let's just see what we got Isn't that amazing. As soon as the obstruction goes in those standing waves just suddenly appear It seems like further downstream. The  ripples are tighter. Then as you move up the stream They get wider. Look at that. So cool. Is that a standing wave? What is it? I also noticed that there are sweet spots like if the obstruction isn't in quite the right place you get these Vibrations, but where do these ripples come from? Well for one thing you definitely need laminar flow I've mentioned that a couple of times I've not really said what it is, but imagine this imagine you've got a column of water like we have and It's all streaming downwards, but the water is traveling at different speeds So maybe on the inside the water is traveling more quickly than on the outside and with laminar flow you don't have any interaction between those layers of different speed they just kind of Slide past each other. If water was transferred between those layers of different speeds Then you'd end up with turbulent flow which is like the opposite of laminar flow You can see it really well with the smoke from a candle So to begin with the smoke rises through the still air around it, but doesn't interact with it at all But eventually it catches if you like on the air around it and creates these turbulent Spinning twisting motions. I've done a bit of research and there doesn't seem to be much literature around these ripples above an obstruction But I have found a clue and that cure is the Rayleigh-Plateau Instability which is a fancy name for Something you've probably seen many times before if you turn your tap down until it's just a fine stream eventually You'll see it breaking into droplets and that moment that it breaks into droplets That's Rayleigh-Plateau instability. But the cool thing is if you take a freeze-frame of that happening It looks like this look at those ripples very similar to what we're getting here interesting application of the Rayleigh plateau instability is if you've got a jet of fluid hitting a surface and you want to reduce splash back Simply reduce the distance to the surface until you remove all instability But why is it that you can only see those ripples in freeze-frame you can't see them with the naked eye It's because they're moving around they're moving up and down the stream as time goes on It's too fast for you to see so maybe when you obstruct the flow of the stream You're generating the ripples at that point, but you're fixing them in space somehow I've got a theory for how that might happen But where are the ripples come from in the first place in the Rayleigh-Plateau instability? Well, there is literature on that and it's all to do with surface tension You can think of the surface tension of water as like an elastic property that the water has on its surface. So How's it gonna behave? Well think about an elastic band mean you stretch an elastic band It pulls itself in. An elastic band tries to minimize its length, and it's similar with elastic surfaces, they try to minimize their area and This is also true of soap film so when you blow a bubble it encapsulates a Volume of air and it slowly kind of wobbles into its preferred shape Which of course is a sphere because a sphere is the lowest surface area that can enclose a given volume And it's also why droplets of water Forms spheres, but what does this mean for a column of water like we have here? Well, we can actually model it with soap film How does a cylindrical soap film minimize its surface area? Look as the cylinder grows in height the soap film starts to bow inwards This is always the minimum surface area If it was more pinched to the surface air would be greater if it was less pinched the surface air would be greater as well and as The cylinder grows in height that bowing inwards grows more pronounced Anyway, it gets to the point where it pinches all the way in and it separates into two separate soap films a bit like the formation of a droplet of water How does that apply to a column of water? Like why do the ripples appear in the particular location that they appear and why are they the size that they are? Well the ripples grow from tiny Perturbations in the otherwise very smooth flow of water and they grow like this imagine that you've got some ripples That are kind of sinusoidal so you've got some pinch points and you've got some bulge points like this and here's an interesting fact about elastic surfaces if an Elastic surface is tightly curved. Then the pressure inside will be great whereas if the elastic surface is Loosely curved the pressure inside will be less and you can apply that to these bulges here So look at the neck here, you've got a tightly curved Elastic surface, so the pressure inside is very great. At the bulge, you've got a loosely curved surface So the pressure is less that means that the neck will squeeze water into the bulge and you will have this growing ripple Except it's a little bit more complicated that because the curvature at the pinch points it's actually a saddle point and saddle points are a bit more complicated a good example of Saddle point is a Pringle crisp So you've got a curve going this way and you've got a curve going that way like it like a saddle essentially But look imagine that this is a little section of our pinch point. You've got the inside curve here That's generating pressure inside but then you've got this this is actually a negative curve. It's going the other way So it's reducing the pressure inside the neck. So it's actually not clear who's gonna win the fight Is it the the Bulge that has like both curves of the curve in this direction the curve in this direction? They're both adding to the pressure inside. But look at this curve here. This curve is going the other way It's a negative curvature and it actually reduces the pressure inside So there's a balance between those two effects and it turns out that who wins the fight Depends on the wavelength of the ripples so with those short wavelength ripples that the Bulge is gonna win the fight and they're just going to disappear but with longer curvature ripples where the external curvature is lower Then the the pressure inside the neck is going to win and the pinch point is going to get greater and greater It's those bulges that are going to grow. It's that optimum wavelength that you're ultimately going to see So there's got to be a link between this Rayleigh-Plateau Instability and the ripples that we're seeing when we obstruct the stream of water My thinking is this when you put your finger into the stream you're forcing the water to bow out at that fixed point and it's a bit like a Standing wave in wave mechanics. So you've got a kind of boundary condition so in wave mechanics a boundary condition is when you fix a certain point like on a guitar string one end is fixed as you've Got two boundary conditions. Both ends are fixed and that forces a Standing wave in the vibrations of the guitar string and in a similar sense here you're saying look we're forcing an anti-node At this point and the rest of the wave is gonna grow Upwards from that point like a standing wave on a guitar string. That's my theory anyway. I love investigating these sorts of things just for their own sake really like I'm sure nothing useful will ever come of it but I actually think curiosity for curiosity's sake is important because some of these investigations do turn out to be important like the Rayleigh-Plateau instability is really useful for Making printers work like inkjet printers and all sorts of other applications actually bizarrely Even black holes like some physicists are investigating what black holes look like in the extra dimensions of string theory and they're modeling it as what they call black strings and it seems like these black strings are unstable in a similar way to streams of water and They're gonna break up into like black hole droplets like the Rayleigh-Plateau droplets really interesting stuff This video is sponsored by Squarespace to get 10% off your first purchase. I hope you enjoyed this video If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe, and I'll see you next time 