“What's my destiny, Mama?” “You're going to have to
figure that out for yourself” In Forrest Gump, we see
two philosophies battling it out. The belief in a destiny
ordained by God, “We all have a destiny. Nothing just happens, it’s all part of a plan. ” And the idea
that you make your own destiny. “I happen to believe
you make your own destiny.” These are two quintessentially
American world views that are, seemingly, at odds with each other. “I don't know if we each have a destiny,
or if we're all just floating around accidental-like on a breeze.” On the one hand,
this is a deeply religious country, Even people who don’t explicitly worship
are likely to show a kind of religiosity in their thinking,
as embodied in phrases like: “Everything that’s meant to happen
does.” “Destiny” in particular is a key part
of our national consciousness. 19th-century politics were dominated
by the idea of “Manifest Destiny,” Or the faith that
this country’s expansion across the American continent
was inevitable and preordained. At the same time,
most Americans believe in hustling to make something of your life. This is supposed to be the country
where anyone can rise to the top through sheer will and ingenuity. That necessitates freedom
and an open playing field, both of which come from a degree
of chance. “Life is like a box of chocolates,
Forrest. You never know
what you’re going to get.” In the end, the movie concludes
that most likely our lives include both divine influence and randomness. “Maybe it's both.” And this is embodied in the story’s
central symbol: The feather,
which opens the film and delivers us to our narrator. This little feather appears
to embody the presence of both chance and the divine. A feather is just blowing in the wind,
and could land anywhere, but at the end of the film,
the feather merges with the clouds in the sky,
as if it’s a little piece of heaven blessing our lives. You might say the feather
is really opportunity, whether it comes from chance
or from some kind of God, and that’s why it’s so significant
that the feather is invisible or brushed off by everyone
except Forrest. “Our destiny is only defined by how we deal with
the chance elements to our life. And that’s kind of the embodiment of the feather as it comes in. That here is this thing that can land anywhere
and that it lands at your feet, it has theological implications
that are really huge.” When it lands at Forrest’s feet,
he notices and presses it into his favorite book
for safekeeping. At the end,
he watches it fly away, as if the feather’s work in his life
is now complete. The title of the book
where he houses the feather, Curious George, captures the way that Forrest himself
is open to whatever shows up. “How’d you like to go
into the shrimping business with me?” “Okay.” Most of us,
like the other characters in this movie, have heads full of ideas
of how things are supposed to go. “This wasn’t supposed to happen. Not to me.” “I wanna be famous,
I wanna be a singer like Joan Baez.” “I’m going into the shrimping business
for myself after I get out of the army.” And all this noise blinds us
to the moment when we’re visited by the feather, or the opportunity. So this encapsulates what is really
Forrest’s greatest gift of all: He’s receptive. “Good catch Gump,
you know how to play this?” He’s present, and he listens to people. “Just stay a little longer.” “For some reason Jenny didn’t ever
wanna go home.” “Okay Jenny I’ll stay.” Something that very few others
in this story do. Pretty much everything he does
is a response to something or someone that appears in his life. “Have you given any thought
to your future?” Even when he does take an initiative,
it’s based on advice from, “Run Forrest run!” or a promise to a person he loves, “But now that he’s dead
that means I’ve got to be the captain.” “A shrimp boat captain?” “Yes sir,
a promise is a promise LT. Dan.” Or in response to something they’ve done. In Forrest,
we see a portrait of religiosity, but not in the typical way
we tend to think of it. He eventually becomes
a church-going man because Lieutenant Dan tells him to. “Maybe you should just pray
for shrimp.” Of course Forrest promptly agrees. “So I went to church every Sunday.” Allowing the cynical Dan
an excuse to attend himself, as he secretly feels the need
for spirituality in his life. “Sometimes Lt. Dan came too, though,
I think he left then praying up to me.” During the storm,
Lt. Dan then has an intense argument with his God. “It’s time for a show down,
you and me!” After which he seems to have achieved
the acceptance he’s been craving. “He never actually said so
but I think he made his peace with god.” Forrest doesn’t have the need
to worship or speak to an anthropomorphic divine entity,
the way Lt. Dan conceives of God as a kind of person outside of us. “Have you found Jesus yet, Gump?” “I didn't know I was supposed to be
looking for him, sir.” He doesn’t need to be looking for God,
because he’s already alive to the mysterious heavenly power
that weaves in and out of his life. “I didn’t know it,
but I was destined to be your mama. I did the best I could.” “You did good mama.” He might make us think of Zen Buddhism,
which entails emptying the brain of intellectual ideas
that get in the way of mindfulness. “There was always a million sparkles
on the water. Like that mountain lake. It was so clear Jenny, it looked like there were two skies
one on top of the other.” Near the end,
Forrest talks about moments when he’s felt connected to the presence
of heaven on earth. “I couldn’t tell where heaven started
and earth began.” Because he’s not overfull with
hang-ups about how things ought to be, he’s the rare soul who can perceive
the way that the miraculous touches our lives all the time. “My Mama always told me
that miracles happen every day. Some people don't think so,
but they do.” Sometimes this is obvious,
like when, soon after Forrest takes
Lt. Dan’s advice to resort to prayer, a hurricane destroys
all the other shrimping boats. “In fact, only one shrimping boat
actually survived the storm.” “Louise. Louise, there's Forrest.” “After that, shrimping was easy.” But seeing miracles can also require
a little more imagination and interpretation. After young Jenny prays to escape
her abusive home life, “Dear God, make me a bird
so that I can fly far, far away from here.” God doesn’t give her
exactly what she asks for, but He does seem to answer that prayer. “Mama always said God is mysterious. He didn't turn Jenny into a bird that day. Instead, He had the police say Jenny didn't have to stay
in that house no more.” The irony is that as his
more goal-oriented friends falter, receptive Forrest follows through
on their dreams. He becomes the decorated war hero
Lt. Dan aspired to be. “They gave you
the Congressional Medal of Honor?” Lives Jenny’s dream of becoming famous, “When I got home,
I was a national celebrity, famouser even than Captain Kangaroo.” And launches the extremely successful
shrimping business Bubba planned. “We got a whole bunch of boats. Twelve Jennys. A big ol warehouse, we even have hats
that say Bubba-Gump on them.” Because he’s driven by loyalty
to his loved ones, he’s unstoppable when it comes to
making his friends’ dreams come true. “Hey Bubba, it’s me Forrest Gump. I remember everything you said, and I got it all figured out.” Proving the power of seeking a goal
out of love, versus for self-serving reasons. “I gave Bubba’s mama, Bubba’s share. And you know what? She didn’t have to work in
nobody’s kitchen no more.” Forrest’s openness also wins people over
in all kinds of situations, making them open up to him. “I remember when that happened,
when Wallace got shot. I was in college.” So the movie suggests
that there’s not only an inherent virtue but also a recipe for success
in Forrest’s approach. “A few months later,
they invited me and the ping pong team to visit the White House. So I went. Again.” We can learn from Forrest how to
make the most of our destinies, too. Stop being hung up on preconceptions, “That was my destiny,
and you cheated me out of it.” And instead be ready to receive. This way,
we can both better appreciate what we already have
and more effectively seize on opportunities that present themselves. “Hey Forrest,
all the shrimp you can eat.” “That’s a fine idea.” “Bubba did have a fine idea.” The second big symbol in the story
is the box of chocolates, which represents chance,
and the inherently unfair lottery we’re all born into. “My Mama always said life was like
a box of chocolates. You never know
what you’re going to get.” As Forrest recounts his life story
to whomever happens to sit next to him on the bench, another element of randomness,
we learn that he didn’t get the best chocolate out of the box. “He's going to have to go to a special school.” “Back’s as crooked as a politician.” “Is there a Mr. Gump, Mrs. Gump?” “He’s on vacation.” Whether the point is to
forge your destiny or to find it, Forrest’s story tells us it’s crucial
to make the most of whatever you’re given. “You have to do the best
with what God gave you.” And since Forrest does this,
he’s rewarded many times over. “You do your very best now Forrest.” “I sure will Mama.” We have so much to say
about Forrest Gump, we decided to make two videos on it. So, in our next video we’ll be talking
about why this is a modern American myth where Forrest embodies
the American spirit and the other characters each represent
different aspects of our national identity. So stay tuned for Forrest Gump,
the myth of America. 