(Pay attention all the FineApples around the world!) (Complete comeback in 1 year and 6 months!) (Not only human beings but also spacemen) (Overwhelming atmosphere that makes you fall in love!) (Girls chanting spells for love!) This is what fans want to see, KPOP STAR's attractive time! The behind of Inkigayo! Shindonggayo Hello, this is Shindong Today, the guest who came to Shindonggayo We've waited so long What a comeback in 1 year and 6 months! Pure Idol! Forget about Sawol! Radiating urban charm Came back more maturely Title song LALALILALA~ (Laughs) (lol) Nice meet you APRIL (April returned with the title song !) Two three Falling in APRIL! Hello, this is APRIL Nice to meet you ~ (Shindonggayo) It can be said the representative corner of Shindonggayo! Me and APRIL together It's time to make a dance video Shall we dance with Shindong? Now, this is the title song of APRIL I'll learn the choreography of LALALILALA and going to promote it together (LALALILALA with Shindong!) Can you show me the choreography once ... Yeah Let's meet with the whole song Let's meet APRIL LALALILALA~ (Let's meet the teachers first!) (Dancing) (♬ APRIL-LALALILALA) (Filled the whole floor) (Turn) (Comes out) Oh ~ this is cool! (Smile) (Baby rabbit chick who gives a key appears) (The point is strong yet soft) Wow~ !! (Me too) (Eye contact) (APRIL's stage shining more than stars) (Instead of fluorescent lamps, I put pictures of APRIL) (LALALILALA~) (LALALILALA, what an addictive spell) (oh you only dream of me ♬) (I'll only dream of APRIL from today ..!) (Scanning the choreography) (LALALILALA, the spell that will attract everyone) (The best!) It was LALALILALA Awesome First! the choreography is so good! (Smiles) (thank you) Are these two fingers a point? You keep using these And after putting a magic spell "Hmm Am I pretty? Good job?" You just got it! (How did he know?) You just did it like this So who will teach me? I'll let you know (Chaewon teacher!) At first Just spread your hand (Spreads) (Strongly open your hand) With two fingers (S-shaped wave) What is it? The pelvis is from the left (LALALI) Ok this way You can sweep your hair from the left one two Oh, wearing it like this? Yes, sweeping your hair like this and say "Did I do good?" (Alright, alright, well done..) Yeah, and then Can't get away and then lower your hands (Chaewon kindly teaches step by step) You can make a circle behind like this He memorizes so quickly You might think I memorized all, but I've just followed it once. (Aha..) You can teach me in earnest from now on Should we try again? Let's do it slowly (Just amazing) Turn How do you do when you turn it? Like this Ah, with the hips (He's learning hard today, too) You're so good (Check it again with watching the choreography video) You memorize faster than us Is it 'my dream'? You are my dream Is it 'my dream'? Huh? Oh okay ~ Let's do it now Let's challenge challenge! Let's Go~ It's the shortest time, right? Now APRIL's LALALILALA Let's make the perfect dance together Shindonggayo (Cutie Shindong) (looking at him) Let's go ~! (LALALILALA ~) He's doing so hard I can do it! (You can do it) (S​successful at once ?!) No~ (Fell in) He's doing so well He's so good Shindonggayo success! (Success in a long time !!!) (Shindonggayo) It is time to release the music video episode. Shall we watch the music video with Shindong? How will it be like to watch a music video with APRIL? Play the music video ~ Uh wait, someone's lying down It haven't started yet? Someone's sleeping Oh is she sleeping? Is it a robot? Let's see (Causing many curiosities from the start) Oh! (Asleep) Sleeping Huh? Everyone's there!? (Dream? Space? Mysterious atmosphere from the beginning) Uh, there is a bar code! Yes it is! (It's a robot) It's an A.I (APRIL became A.I) Wow it's a milky Way! Milky Way (Laugh at each other's acting) There were a lot of acting scenes this time. (Nodding) So I not only a choreography, but also we had a long time for acting Oh really? did you have a hard time, Chaekyung? When you were acting? Yeah (Not even hesitates for 1 second LOL) Okay, I'll take a deep look at Chaekyung's acting scene Oh, there is a CCTV Ah, it's cringe Ah, CG is used a lot (Music Video with a lot of space background CG) There are many CGs Wow, the dress is really pretty Oh this costume is nice (MC Shindong's pick is APRIL dress) (Satisfied) The genre has changed a lot (Very different from the APRIL's earlier images) The space is so pretty It came out so well Chaewon's lip is shivering even though it's a lip sync (Ha ha ha) I love the dress scene I agree Like when a man is in a nice suit For women, too It was so funny at this time (An eye-acting) Oh her eyes! (Finally, Chaekyung & Rachel acting scene) Only draw pictures? They're acting! What did you draw? Did you play bingo? Or.. Ah when I first draw I didn't know the cameraman is shooting from behind (Chaekyung thought he was only shooting in front) I just wrote what I really wanted to say But later the cameraman shot behind So I told him if he can skip the scene... Oh what did you write? Do you remember anything you wrote? Such as 'I'm going home' (Agree) Oh, you wanted to leave work quickly I should have written it, too (A princess who wants to leave quickly) (Concentrates) (Oh pretty) Wow, dress again (Naeun & Jinsol climbing the ladder) Acting Follow me They're acting! Acting Don't let it go Jinsol! You are not human beings In the story, you are not human beings Pretty The blue color is so pretty, too We always filmed a retro-like music video until now, but this time, we tried with a future-feeling (This concept is with the future background) So we drew the bar code on our neck (Bar code consisting of date of birth and date of debut) Oh there's something like that Yes it is uh? uh?! (Overly-engaged) No! Don't fall! Oh, it was a dream I had a nightmare The dream of falling! I think she's going to grow up more We are trapped in a white space, but there is a door. So we opened it and it is a space right But there is a ladder in front of it (The only escape way : a ladder in the trapped space) We go up there But it's too hard So I reached out to her But she missed me Um, wasn't it on purpose? (Creepy inversion) It might be, but (Patently defending) She missed me and I fell. (Amazing) What is it? (Dark Dream) (Ha ha ha) A very important scene has passed. uh? Took the memory chip Oh! Turned off the CPU Wait a minute, what is that at the end? Now this is it! (Clap) I will tell you about what I saw. ('LALALILALA' interpreted by the director Dong) Let's listen I don't know what it is (Agree) First, basically You were sleeping But there is a bar code here (APRIL sleeping with bar codes) And there are stars such as Earth Out of the window you're keep seeing through It looks like you're in another planet. (Conclusion : You are not earthlings) Are we aliens? As aliens, it ’s too lonely to be with you guys only (Being persuaded) So you're dreaming only the day going to Earth Waiting to see each other So you drew pictures while looking at Earth But that didn't happen (Persuaded) But it was all just a dream that didn't happen Because you dreamed as an A.I So the conclusion is "Okay, I don't mind anymore" "Let's just wear expensive clothes"
So you wore the dress (Laughs) Did it just end after falling? How did it go? After falling, Naeun woke up. I had a nightmare Oh yeah, it was a nightmare (Changed from Sweet Dream to Dark Dream) So we took out the memory chip Why did you do that? Because it's a nightmare (Removes a nightmare) We pulled it out at the end and fall in a sleep peacefully. That's a sweet dream (To a happy dream again at the end) Oh amazing Okay It was APRIL's LALALILALA music video Please enjoy it a lot (Please watch the 'LALALILALA' movie!) (Shindonggayo) Now it's time to end How did you feel today? (Staring) You all are looking at Chaekyung? How was it, Chaekyung? (How Chaeleader think is how we think~) It was more fun than I thought today More than you thought?! (What were you thinking ...) I didn't know we could enjoy it freely like this You thought it was a very hard corner Like a documentary (LOL) Not that much And thanks to Shindonggayo, we could watch the music video again It was so much fun good Then, I am going to make your way a flower path for your album hit the jackpot! Guys One by one with a pose Everyone, just walk on the flower path ~ Goodbye (Happy way to go home~) Goodbye Naeun Goodbye Yena Chaekyung And for the last, Jinsol ~ Goodbye APRIL Shindonggayo 