Did you know that they just let people say whatever they want online? Seems like an oversight, if you ask me. I just finished watching
an awful viral video, from Blossom, called "Is
your food fake or real?" "Find out with these
16 easy tests at home" - What? My food might be fake? - It's been out for a couple of days, and it already has a hundred million views on Facebook alone. And it's also gone viral on Twitter and Instagram and YouTube. - I better watch this to make sure I'm not
eating something weird. I mean, 75 million views. It must be good, right? - No, dumb Jarvis. It's not good. They're just making things up. In fact, they've introduced a problem that no one in modern
society has to worry about. You know, I don't know why like scrolling up and down on Facebook so much. But what I do know, is it's my choice and my choice alone. All right, it's time for
a nice balanced meal. - Hey, maybe your food's
fuck(beep) fake dude. - Whoa. I never thought about that. Trusty Facebook algorithm, known for its bulletproof track record. - When have I ever lead you wrong? I'm always looking out for you, buddy. - That is true. After all, I never would have found out that 9/11 was an inside
job if it weren't for you. - Good times. Also, you can't forget about that time that I told you that Jay Z and Beyonce are both-- - [Both] Lizard people. - Okay. You're always right. You don't have to keep rubbing it in. - Take another look. - Okay, fine. Oh my God. I can't believe it This whole time? This whole time I've been eating a collection of short
stories by Ray Bradbury? - Now, before we get into the
plastic meat and potatoes, I wanted to point out that this video is made by Blossom. If you're not familiar with Blossom, they're another one of those content farms that make pointless content. They harvest clicks for views. It's like another Five Minute Crafts. With amazing life hacks, like, when you forget
that you didn't clean the black tar off your strainer before putting it back in the drawer. Or, completely relatable situations, like when you're folding laundry, and suddenly decide to turn
yourself into a hoodie crab. We've all been there. Or, maybe you remember
them from last year, where they claimed that you
could turn peanut butter and hot coal into diamonds overnight. Well, it's safe to say that much like a male cow
overcoming constipation, Blossom is back on it's bull (bleep). And why shouldn't they be? The video that that clip is from, which is only half fake, was the most viewed video
on Facebook in 2018. At least, according to them. And in this business, if something works, it's
going to be repeated. So, watch my video on High School Musical, I worked really hard on it. So let's get into it, shall we? (upbeat music) We start off by comparing processed cheese and natural cheese. And it looks like processed
cheese doesn't melt as well. So we're just coming out of the
gate with nonsense, I guess. Processed cheese isn't
some sort of evil secret of the food industry. It's something we buy on purpose. And melting is like one
of its main strengths. Processed cheese isn't difficult to melt, it just turns black like most things do when you hold them next to a (bleep) fire. Okay. I'm ready. I've got my handy coffee. And we've got Steve behind the camera. - Hello. - We're going to test
some of Blossom's claims. I'm pretty sure they're all fake, but figure we may as well
put it to the test, right? I've got some Kraft singles here. The finest of processed cheese. Nice, American cheese. This is like, you know,
a metaphor for America. Processed, artificial, orange. We also have some some
mild cheddar cheese. Some natural cheese, if you will. We'll see how this burns. Five minute crafts, more
like five minute craft. It's more of a written joke. So we've got the natural cheese. We got the natural cheddar, and then we've got the American. And I've got a lighter. So I guess we're just
going to like, burn this, and see how it goes. Okay, so it seems to like, be bubbly. It's like, of course it burns like-- Oh, I'm gonna set off the smoke detector. (Steve laughs) Make sure these windows okay. (upbeat music) Okay. That was close. Now I'm out of breath. How much were they heating this up? (Steve laughs) It's like, if the flame were further away, it would melt how we expect it to. I don't really know if
there's anything to learn. So our lighter ran out of fluid. But luckily, Theresa, my roommate, has a (bleep) flame thrower. So I guess we'll just try that? (upbeat music) I think that's enough of this. Now that the room smells
exclusively of cheese, Let's move on to the next hack. (upbeat music) I mean, a little wax
isn't going to hurt you. But, yeah, wash your vegetables. Some of these lack the context to even know what they're talking about. Or, any context for that matter. (upbeat music) We melted some supplements in an oven, and some of the melted. So, I think that means they're bad. This statement is
completely unsubstantiated. You could say this about anything. Which reminds me, and a lot of people don't know this, if peanut butter and
jelly tastes good to you, you only have five years left to live. Sorry. Also, rice is bad now. Apparently. (upbeat music) Hold on. Rice is too expensive? So they mix it with plastic? Do you know what plastic is made out of? Oil. One of the cheapest things known to man. You mean to tell me, that half of Earth's
population eats rice every day, and no one has brought this up. Maybe they could have
gotten away with this if it was like, you know, sometimes they sneak a little cotton candy into pig brains, when
they run out of brains. That I could maybe believe, or at least wouldn't have
enough context to check. But they picked the most
eaten food on the planet. Also what really gets me, is that their test for uncovering this grand conspiracy
that your rice is fake, is just heating it up. Heating up rice is an unavoidable part of the cooking process. It's the one thing that you always do when you're cooking rice. Is there another way to prepare
rice that I'm not aware of? - Rice? Yeah, I just blow on it. - And don't even get
me started on the fact that when they heat up this plastic rice, it just turns transparent. Instead of, I don't know, melting. (upbeat music) All right, so now they're
tackling baby food. - Baby food? But I love baby food. (upbeat music) - Wait. Ground up rocks? Do they know what a rock is? They're just minerals. Calcium is also a rock. Everything is a rock. And they act as if this magnet test is accomplishing anything. You know what's magnetic and
supposed to be in baby food? Iron. - Our babies are eating iron. - Relax, it's a mineral. Haven't you seen any commercial? - [Narrator] Kellogg's
is the only cornflakes that gives you a full
day's supply of iron. - Wait.
(keyboard tapping) Spinach? Rock. Broccoli? Rock. Dwayne Johnson? Rock, they're all rocks. (upbeat music) - Milk will turn blue if
you put seaweed in it, if it's not pure milk. What do you mean, pure milk? Like, it's straight from the cow's udder? 'Cause otherwise, udder-wise, something has
been done to that milk. You know, whole milk, despite the name, is only 4% fat. So that means that they took
96% of something out of it. And, it's probably been pasteurized. Uh, you remember pasteurization from science? In case you forgot, pasteurization just means
that we can enjoy milk without worrying about typhoid fever. Also, rice milk is delicious. They didn't really give
any details at all, which is a theme in all of these. But, I have some premium
roasted seaweeds snacks. And some milk. Two things that have never
been paired together. But, we're going to break
some new ground today. Steve, you got so much seaweed. I guess I'm going to start eating seaweed. - [Steve] You'll thank me. - Are you a big fan of yourself? - [Steve] It's a nice,
like, mid-day thing. When you just want to move your jaw. - The whole day, you haven't been moving your jaw, at all, because you don't work in a job where you talk to people.
- [Steve] Yes. - So, to exercise your jaw, you don't go for the chewing gum. - [Steve] No.
- You go for the seaweed. Hear that, kids? Eat your weed. (seaweed crunches)
All right, this is definitely like
not the seaweed that they-- I feel like they got seaweed
like, directly from the sea. They don't really explain
why any of the things happen, that they do. But they say, if it's pure milk, you'll know. I know this is not going to work. (spoon clattering)
What's this? Steve, shut off the camera. (gasps) It turned blue. - [Steve] I can't believe
we've been bested by Blossom. - I guess, point Blossom. Just kidding. Pranked, pranked. You got pranked, you fricking idiot. I used dye. I use dye, blue dye. And I made it blue, myself. I guess we're calling this one... Aduhbluh. (upbeat music) Coffee? This oughta be good. - Pure coffee sinks, and coffee with additives floats. Oh, so this is just a lie? If you watched my channel before, you know that I'm very into coffee. See? Maybe it isn't obvious to you little Folgers drinkers out there, but anyone who has used a French press, or a Chemex, like I have, I've used both of them and
know how to do so, impeccably. Knows that fresh coffee floats, and, what's the other one? - [Steve] Stale coffee. - Stale coffee sinks. Here I have some coffee beans that are... well, they smell nice, but they're stale. They're at least, well, these were roasted in March. So, we're going to go ahead
and grind these beans. Because I buy whole bean coffee. See? Everyone knows. I mean, maybe you little
Starbucks heads don't know. You have to buy whole bean
coffee, because it's better. And I'm better than you. (coffee beans rattling) Normally the coordinates of
the coffee grinds doesn't. Ah. What I was saying there, maybe went a little bit over your head. We've now ground some coffee. Let's see how our stale coffee did. (cup rattling) Oh, look at the stale coffee sinking. Like a little bit(beep). Oh, is that mud? Is that mud you've got there? No, it's coffee. But unfortunately it's stale. After all, it was roasted in March. Hahaha. We're going to clean off our little grinder receptacle thingy. Because we wouldn't want to
contaminate our fresh beans with beans that were roasted in March. Now we have some good old Philz Coffee. Everyone knows. I love Philz Coffee. See? This is the Tesora. It's one of my personal favorites. And it was roasted... Well, they told me it
was roasted yesterday. So, you know, when it
wasn't roasted, Steve? - [Steve] In March. - That's right. It wasn't roasted in March. (beans rattling)
Just a few dozen. All right, now, back to
the history of coffee. (coffee beans rattling)
You see, it all started with the coffee fairy. And, we're done. It's the moment of truth. Oh. Wow. Ohh. (speaks foreign language) So I'm just saying it's BS. Do you want your glasses back?
- [Steve] Yes, please. (upbeat music) - Salt is mixed with chalk. You just poured it in the salt. Of course it doesn't immediately dissolve. Of course they don't show us, in the video, them putting
pure salt into the water. Because they didn't. They just took a video of
a normal glass of water. We've got ourselves some Morton salt here. Look at that little tube. You know there's chalk in there. Just waiting to be found out. Let's see what happens. Wow. Wow. Chalk. Chalk. Look how cloudy it is. It's chalk, this whole time. I found you out, Morton. You and your little umbrella. What are you hiding from? The truth. It's a truth umbrella. - [Steve] Wait, so doesn't this mean that Blossom is right? - Just kidding. Again, pranked. Pranked. I put in more salt than was soluble in this volume of water. You fricking dirk. Dirk, you jerk idiot. This one's also been... Huh, I guess it does kinda clear up, when you give it time to settle. Duhbluhbluhbluh. I want to talk about
the end of this video. 'Cause it's dystopian as (bleep). (upbeat music) - [Narrator] Know the food you eat. - Why should I know the food I eat? You clearly don't. Also, it's especially weird that this is so dark coming from Blossom. Whose logo is a baby with
a flower around it's head. - [Narrator] Trust no one. - So these facts are
basically all completely fake or extremely misleading. And, that's kind of annoying. Like this story about fake
green peas might be based on something that happened in China, one time, nine years ago. It's like kind of related to
the truth, but not at all. The facts are still wrong
here, but that's what I mean. It's like maybe? So, I know I gave them a hard time. But, since I have fans
all across the world, if you are watching this in Hunan, China, nine years ago? Watch out. There's also reasonable points to be made about consumer
awareness with food. But, you just know that
Blossom doesn't care about that at all, or else they
would add more context to their videos, or source their claims. They just want clicks. It's a bit of a
smokescreen, if you ask me. Because they want us to be vigilant about what's in our food, but ironically, we should
be paying attention to what's in our feed. That's good. I'm a professional YouTuber, bam. One last weird thing I wanted to talk about with blossom is that, one of the ways that they make money is through brand partnerships. Since they built this massive, like, 51 million follower Facebook page. But when I looked them up
in the Facebook ad library, which I talked about in
the mobile ads video, I saw that they were like
producing ads for other brands. Two brands. One, is just like teeth
whitening commercials. And the other is like a
health app, quote unquote. And the commercials are all
about somebody who's like, having a good date, and then they have some sort
of pressing health issue. And they're very strange. So, I just want to show you one of those. So, this very attractive
man is wrapping up a date. And, just as he's about
to go in for the kiss, uh-oh. Some sort of chest pain. Hold on. Stop the presses. Don't go into your house and end the date. I need to Google my chest pain. And then he's scared by
the auto-complete results. And then his date presents him with an app that asks him some
questions about his health, and lets him diagnose himself
right there at her door. Then, it abruptly cuts
to a workout montage, where he's aggressively working out while staring at a photo of the girl that he's on a date with,
like a serial killer. No, I don't know why he has
a framed photo of a girl that he's clearly only
been on a few dates with. Oh, what's that? You didn't read strenuous
exercise down there at the bottom of the screen, in a different color and font size? And then, he's relieved that there's like a one in five chance that he needs medication
for his chest problem. And then they kiss good night. Thanks, app. Using this app, we'll get you a smooch. Billy242424 says, the future
of healthcare is here. He has apparently never heard of WebMD. You know,
(suspenseful music) as much as I clowned on the ad, I couldn't help but like the main actor. I mean, he gave a hell of a performance, and he's quite the looker, if you ask me. Huh. It's probably nothing. Hrhh. - [Man] It begins. (screen whooshes) (upbeat music) - I'm currently at a casino for a wedding. I'm just going to try and do this very inconspicuously. Thanks to Marius
Abercrombie Schaefer Palmour for sending me a message on Instagram. I have no idea if I'm saying that right. If you want me to butcher your name, follow me on Twitter or Instagram. And turn on notifications, please. Okay, I'm getting crazy looks, bye. 