Hello, my Gumis!
It's Chanmi from likeChanmi~! ♥ ︎ Today I turned on the camera to shoot a Vlog after a long time^_^ Now it's... 6:44 AM Now I'm on my way to the shop to get ready for today's schedule Today's schedule is in the morning I have the book talk And I have to record two episodes of 'Idol League' that I'm recently working with So, after transforming at the shop Let's go with me to my working place~ Tada~ I finish my hair and put on makeup (Wow~ who are you~) Like this~
(O no...so close...//_//) So now I put on make-up I also put on the dress Since my first schedule is the book talk, so I tried to put on a formal suit So shall we leave for the first schedule! Well, I'll eat! (Chanmi's Eating Show time!) (Chanmi's first meal is gimbab) Gimbab! Actually, I am able to eat even kimchi jjigae (kimchi soup) and Doenjang jjigae (bean soup) in the car But today I will start my day eating gimbab lightly Wow, it smells really good~ And there is a very good thing Personally, I like spicy foods This restaurant serves Chaeongyang chili (hot chili) as well~ So, I'll eat hot chili with gimbab Thanks for the food~♥ ︎ It has lots of fluffy eggs It's so good~ (Eating Cheongyang chili) It's not Cheongyang chili It was the jalapeño chili! How sad that this is not Cheongyang chili... (Still, Chanmi is eating well) Um, so good~ I show you the side of gimbab (Chanmi Kim/25/Profesional YouTuber) (Chanmi Kim/25/Profesional Idol) Can I eat your jalapeño? You are not going to eat? Are you sure you won't eat? But if there is jalapeño,  you will eat, yes or no? (Managed to steal jalapeño) Jalapeño is so good~ (Chanmi Kim/25/Profesional Idol)
(Jalapeño yummy) (Gimbab yummy) So good~ I left the tastiest part to eat lastly~ Is this not the waterfall?
Egg Falls! But how should I eat this... (The warm-up exercise) How can I eat this? Cover with the box?
(It doesn't cover everything) (1st attempt) It does not enter... (2nd attempt) How could I eat? (3rd attempt) (Failed) (In the end, the gimbab was disarmed TT) Finish! I already arrived at the broadcasting company The broadcasting company where I will record today is SBS SBS~ Soon I have to go in Well let's go What do you think about my today's makeup?
I'm pretty? Tada~ Guys I finished the book talk And now I'm going to start for the second and third schedule at the same time, 'Idol League' 1, 2, 3! Well, guys, I'm here for the recording of 'Idol League' But today I came to the other studio I also changed my outfit for this program I'm going to rest for about an hour in the car and after reading the script we are going to record the program (I tell you, just in case you're curious~) Today the sunlight is very good so i'm going to do a job to take cute selfies I think it's okay to leave the camera here Come here! Come! I took a lot of super cute selfies (I'm happy) Hello~ Hello~ Shortly, I have to enter to read the script Soon it's time to read the script Now it is 12 and 3 in the afternoon Shall I show you the photos I took right now? (Yes, show us!) These are the photos I took just before I look good, right? I'm going to upload to Instagram one by one (Once again, the selfie time!) (Come and see our cute Chanmi! ♥ ︎) Good afternoon~ Script reading time is up Now I'm going to put on the microphone and go in for the recording (Putting the microphone) Well then, soon I'll be back! We finished our first recording The recording ended at 5:40 PM We entered at 1 and it took 4 hours and 40 minutes... It almost took 5 hours for the recording Since the groups with many members came out, that's why we spend more time to show the charm of each member Are we going to eat dinner? We don't have time for dinner, do we? (Manager: We have time until 7:30) (Manager: What do you want to eat?) My heart says it wants to eat something special... (Chanmi went to eat something special) I want  Kkomak Bibimbab So, one Kkomak Bibimbab and Shrimp Jang (food pickled in soy sauce)... Also, one seafood Pa-jeon! (Spring onion pancake) Owner: Girls, Pajeon takes time to be served~ Okay~ What do you think?
Let's drink Ilpumjinro (liquor)? Let's drink Ilpumjinro (liquor)? x2 Manager: What? Let's drink Ilpumjinro (liquor)? Manager: What? What's wrong? Manager: Are you going back to the house? For dinner today, I'm going to eat Kkomak Bibimbap Shrimp Jang for whom? To her, please Can you show us inside too? Oh well they serve white rice and shrimp jang apart It looks so good~ (It looks delicious...) Manager: Do you want to try? (Sister...) (It's good?) (Oops ...) (Is it good?) Seriously, I'm a professional YouTuber, yes or no? (If Chanmi does not do YouTube, then who can do YouTube?) Thanks~ (Kkomak-bibimbab) Tada~ Thank you so much for the food~ Nothing is for free... I will try~ Um! So good! (She eats very well, our Chanmi~) Thank you very much~ Seafood Pajeon that we ordered is served Thank you so much for the food~ (Thick) (You are very thick Pajeon! So enter my mouth!) (Very hot) I can't eat at fixed times... You too, right? What? Why did no one teach me that this water is special and rich? Did you try that water for the first time? Yes! Why did no one teach me that this water has a special flavor? Bad... Just you drank this water... We finished eating I'm going back to the studio again I enjoyed the food~ I changed my out once more for the last recording Like this~ (Please, someone dissects the formal suit to Chanmi) Like this, I put on the formal suit This time, the girl team called 'Woo! Ah!' Is coming out. and a group of guys called 'OnlyOneOf' together Now it's... almost 9 at night It is the last recording for today I'll come back~ Well guys
I tried to record Vlog with all my effort I really did my best... oh where are you going! 1, 2, 3! Well guys
I tried to record Vlog with all my effort... That day was a day with super hard schedule... So I forgot to close my Vlog that day. So I'm recording the final part of Vlog on another day... (Chanmi! Stupid!) That day, almost at 12 or 1 at night the recording ended After that, I returned to the house well And I rested well Henceforth,
I will never forget to record the closing of the video I promise you that even though I am very tired, I will close the video well After a long time, I recorded the Vlog Always thank you very much for watching my video So far it was Chanmi from likeChanmi~ Bye~ 