If you’re watching this video, keep your
eyes peeled. We’ve got a missing star and the search
is on. And its disappearance might be connected to
a bit of physics we’ve never seen before. This strange situation was laid out last week
in a paper published in the Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical
Society. It describes more than a decade of observations
of the Kinman Dwarf Galaxy, a small collection of stars about 75 million
light-years away. Because it’s so far away, not even our most
powerful telescopes can make out individual stars within the galaxy. Instead, astronomers use a technique called
spectroscopy to look at the chemical makeup of the galaxy
and search for outliers that might indicate something interesting
is going on. And in observations starting in 2001, they identified the signature of an extremely
rare kind of star. It’s called a luminous blue variable, or
LBV, which is the last stage of life for some of
the universe’s biggest stars. And this thing is bright: the paper estimates
that it’s around 2.5 million times brighter than our Sun. So, scientists were intrigued by it, and between
2001 and 2011, teams of researchers observed this galaxy
to try to learn more about this strange star. And that’s exactly what the authors of last
week’s paper were trying to do, as well. Except, in 2019, when they pointed the European
Southern Observatory’s Very Large Telescope in the direction of the
Kinman Dwarf Galaxy, the signature of the LBV was just gone. Normally, LBVs end their lives in massive
supernova explosions, but astronomers almost certainly would’ve
noticed that, because, even that far away, a supernova would be bright
enough to pick out with a telescope. So the fact that it just vanished is bizarre. And, like any good whodunnit, there are a
few possible explanations. The most straightforward is that the star
just suddenly got dimmer. After all, the “V” in LBV stands for “variable,”
as in variable brightness. So it’s possible that it got a little dimmer, and maybe also got obscured by a cloud of
dust at the same time. The second option, which is definitely more
exciting, is that the LBV is now a black hole. Normally, a supernova has to happen before
you get a black hole, but physicists have hypothesized that, under
the right circumstances, it may be possible for a massive, unstable
star to collapse directly into a black hole and
basically just vanish. Astronomers have never seen such a thing,
but if it happened, it might look a lot like what we see here. Of course, it’s still possible that the star actually did
explode in a supernova and we just missed it. These days, automated supernova monitoring
makes that pretty unlikely, but the authors acknowledge that the star
could have gone supernova sometime before we started regularly observing
it in 2001. If that were the case, the bright signal they
saw between 2001 and 2011 may have come from interactions between the expanding supernova and the gas surrounding
it. With so many possibilities, it’ll take a
lot more observations to figure out which one is right. But, if this giant star really did collapse
into a black hole, you can be sure that we’ll never see it
again. In other space news, planetary scientists
recently used NASA’s Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter to learn something surprising about the Moon’s
composition, and the answer might help fill in details
about how the Moon was formed. It’s now widely accepted that the Moon formed
as a result of a massive collision between our young Earth
and a Mars-sized object. But the details aren’t all that clear. Like, how much of the Moon is made of Earth-stuff versus material from the object that hit it? Since the collision happened billions of years
ago, computer simulations are the main tool scientists
use to test out scenarios. And to make a good simulation, you need to know as much as possible about
the basic structure of the Moon. Last week, work published in the journal Earth
and Planetary Science Letters revealed a new detail about a place we don’t
know that much about: the interior of the Moon’s crust. The discovery was actually an accident. The team was trying to use LRO’s radar instrument to search for evidence of water in lunar craters. One way to do that is by examining particles
on crater floors, looking for changes in a property called relative
permittivity. Permittivity describes how easily electric
fields can travel through a material. And while mapping the permittivity of crater
floors using radar, the researchers noticed something unusual. The larger a crater was, the higher the permittivity
seemed to be on the floor, but only to a point. For craters bigger than about five kilometers
across, the value seemed to level off. After considering several possibilities, the
team concluded that the varying permittivity was telling them that the floors of the larger
craters had more metallic compounds. Which might seem weird, because what’s special
about wider craters? But they’re not just wider. They’re also
deeper. So, the results are really suggesting that
the deeper you go into the Moon’s crust, the more metal you find, until about 500 meters
below the surface. There, the metal content seems to level out
at a fixed value. Now, on its own, this doesn’t tell us much
about the origin of the Moon. But it could help scientists refine their
simulations. Because if your simulation has to create a
body with lots of iron and titanium right under
the surface, that’s a pretty specific constraint, and it could help future simulations narrow
down the possible collision scenarios. It’s no interstellar whodunnit mystery, but sometimes the trickiest puzzles are the
ones closest to home. Thanks for watching this episode of SciShow
Space News! And if you’re up for learning about another
cosmic mystery, you might like our episode on the so-called
Great Attractor, which is truly one of the biggest mysteries
out there. You can watch that next! [♪ OUTRO] 