(A justice man is coming) This is a prank cam! (Yolo Choong-Ho is being hold his shoulder by the man) You can call GW bro if you think this is not a joke Hey guys!
Please come out! (He is calling out his fellows) GW!
Help me! Hello Yolo people out there! Yolo Comics! We are going to take a prank cam of slashing and stealing car tires today Our plat mate has suggested us to prank friends of his Let us introduce our plat mate Gi-Wan He is close to a comedian So-Rah Park so we are going to get started a prank cam to her We've already checked she is currently at a home 
Let's get started to prank to friends of Gi-Wan now Let's get started a prank of 
slashing and stealing car tires! - Hello
- Where are you So-Rah? - Hey! I'm at a home now 
- What are you doing at home? - I guess I'm going to take a rest at a home 
- Going to take a rest? - I was going to ask to have a coffee 
- Really? - Let's have a coffee 
-That sounds good. Make a call once you get here - Okay 
- Okay Let's get started the prank cam 
on the way of giving her a coffee (Found So-Rah's car) (Checking out her hand phone number) We've found her car and get read for the prank We are going to call her that we've scratched her car Let's get started a prank (Calling to So-Rah) - Hello?
- I'm sorry to say this but are you the owner of Tivoli? Yes right. That's me I've made some scratches on your car while I was parking my car. Can you please come down and see this Really? Are you at a parking lot? Yes right. I'm at the parking lot on the first floor - Okay. I'm coming 
- I'm really sorry Let's get ready for the prank 
Hurry! (Yolo Park is awaiting) (Why isn't she coming?) (She is coming) (She is here! Let's get started!) (Is he the guy who've just called me before?) Where did you make the scratches?
(She's so kind) (Slash!)
(What?) (What on earth is this?) (Who....who is this guy?) Hooooolllld on!!
What the heck are you doing?! One more time! What?! What on earth with you?! Hey!!!
Oh my gosh! You fxxx bastard!!
(What the...) (She is finally coming down) (Is he the guy who has just called me?) Where's the scratches?
(She's so kind) (Why isn't he answering?) (Oops) (What's wrong with this guy?) What the...? Huh? Wha....t......What?! (One more time!) What's wrong with you?!
Oh my gosh! Hey!!
Hold on for sec! You fxxx bastard!
(What the heck is this guy?) Hey! Hey!! Hang on for sec!!! Hey you fxxx bastard! Hey!!!!!! (Let's move onto the the next mission) (So-Rah is coming back to her car after missing Yolo Park) (What would I do with my car)
(I think I should call the police) (What...the heck is this sound....?)
(She's walking backward) (Fake sound) (Is there anyone?)
(She's looking around) (Let's check first what's happening) Hey....Hey!!! (Let's run away first!) My tire?! No!!!
That's mine!! My tire! No!!
That's my tire!! Mine Mine Mine!! That's mine!!!!!! - Is that your tire?
- Yes! This is mine! (A good disciplined citizen is coming) (I'm in danger!)
(He looks so fierce!) (You are done today!) A justice man The justice man is coming! Please!! Please help me!
He's staling my tire This is a prank cam!
Don't get me wrong! The man is holing Yolo's shoulders strongly Hey guys!
Coming out here for sec! Gi-Wan is here!
(Please help me GW!) I'm telling you don't move! (Gi-Wan...? YouTube....?) I'm filming a YouTube video now (Gi-Wan....?) What? (So-Rah! It's me) (We did apology to him saying this is a prank cam) (The good just man is finally calm down) She was calling out for a help (Yolo was so close to get smashed by him) (Warning : Do not follow this prank cam ever) Is that okay your face is exposed to the video sir? I can tell my story to my boys as long as my face is shown in the video It's Yolo Comics You can type Yolo Comics You did really great job sir 
I think no one can do this What? (Why is not easy to help?) Since people these days do not care others There were a lot of people have just passed by Because they were afraid? We haven't seen anyone who were trying to help others at once I was going to catch you guys You did hold my shoulders very strongly I guess I have bruise on my shoulder (You gotta be kidding lol) (Thank you so much for your brave!) I can't do this anymore because I'm old now (I think this is really a good town to live) As you can see the wheel, this is entirely different one Who could even have the moment to check the wheel! I thought the crazy guys were stealing my tires! That's why we dress up like this too Oh my gosh...
(She is speechless) We did not touch of your car at all Oh my gosh!
(I'm shocked) Thank you so much for you help We are so touched by your brave act LOL....
(You guys are funny) You said you have children right? He's on a military service now Would you like to leave a message to him? He's going to have a holiday this month
(He's so cool lol) (Thank you so much for your brave act in this tough world) Alright You are so mean too! That was so real Oh my gosh...the tires... Gosh... What is this...?
An A/C fresher? Oh my god! I can't believe my self that
I was fooled by this A/C fresher? Gi-Wan has told us that you would be easily fooled by our prank cam You guys are awesome I recommend you 
(Our apology to So-Rah) (We has helped us a lot today) (Give big love to a comedian, So-Rah Park) Thank you all for who loves Yolo Comics! 