RREAL STORY Today, you’re gonna get dirty and Ah, did you say we could wear comfy clothes? Yes Nobody told us, right? Uh, why didn’t your manager tell you? What, someone already made cuts here~ Really? Mine is totally untouched Forget what you just saw SUNMI, how is it going? Are you happy? Ugh, no Hey! Whoa, I can hear my favorite bird singing Coocoo Coocoo Coocoo Coocoo Nice to meet you Oh, hi. Nice to meet you First meeting with the rreal master I can see they look pretty good Oh? Are you from the army? Ah, no, I’m not... Like Harry Potter Those who enjoy wild camping don’t really use this kind of stuff What? I never knew! that I had no talent for this The slapstick earlier Is there anyone who look like you? (Hesitant) I don’t have one Hhng-mmin Sssn Heung-min Son I think being pretty in the video is not important right now (Ambition for) Being funny is!! (Jokes) The best slapstick since her debut 14yrs ago Surrender, Wobbly wobbly, Slapstick... Checking the youngest’s chin I’ve shaved,, Oh~ ugh, Gosh!! Can’t you just normally sit in the chair? My chair is spinning~ Mine can spin, too Becuz they’re the same chairs Gather around me (Chirp) (Chirp) Have you exchanged ‘Three’ with snack? I put out the fire~ I did~~ I thought that you were a firefighter Let’s light a fire No, no, I don’t think that’s correct Ah, do you want to make a fire here? Yeah Is it possible? You’ll probably have to rub like 600 million times (She’s really doing 600 million times) I love the nature so much It would be even nicer if the sky was more blue It’s poetic Everyone~ It’s meat~~ (Gazing at fire) Do people enjoy it these days? Do they call this ‘GF (Gazing at the fire)’? When you have too many thoughts, you can light a fire or a lighter or a scented candle Do whatever you want Gathering up the broken brotherhood Hey, is this a pineapple flavor? Ah, it’s pale ale Ok! Cheers!! Wait a sec! Give us some time We are not used to drinking alcohol I’m sorry Guys, it’s an indirect ad. It can improve the environment for filming She knows when to take a pic for the thumbnail! Should I take it down? Should I spread sauce? Sir, doesn’t it look delicious? Whoa, it looks delicious! Here is the reaction you ordered Break time~ It’s roasted SUNMI with mud There’s also roasted Dong Lee and roasted Seung Dong Noona, you’re not tipsy, are you? No, I’m okay now But you were a moment ago, right? I’ve been practicing The trendy one This, Sunglasses Ta! this Ta I want to do something What, what? Let’s do it~ Gang! (by Rain) Hundred dollar bill After doing this one, He goes down I saw it about a year? ago I watch ‘Gang’ once a day Or I can get myself a snapback and write SUNMI with a marker Rain oppa shouldn’t bite his lipes Souldn’t stick out his tongue Souldn’t do ‘Ggoman Dance’ (*Korean meme) Bright lights~ I’ve watched ‘Gang’ 8 times today The winner is #1 Me? Try harder I don’t wanna win anymore I think I should be the second place Oh, really? Rreal master! This one was really creative Then SUNMI is the 2nd place? Oh, it smells so good. Geez You are drooling Seung Dong. I’ll give you this Yeap Thank you for your hard work~ Hey, Congratulations, Rreal winner~ Yeah~ He’s the second rreal winner Whoa Olaf~ I’m so happy, and I’ll try my best to win again next week But today’s penalty was so exhausting We’ve met a bear, and Did we meet a bear? We’ll lift the rreal winner up and clap the clapper board Whoa, you’re much heavier after eating the BBQ Bye bye, everyone~ Why are you so heavy today? Thank you for your help, Sir. I think being the rreal is a penalty We gotta get going Everyone did a great job Thank you so much Thanks for your help 