Today's video is sponsored by the deck of many .com Ok, ok, so Last time we escaped soul portal ._. Resurrected sneeze... Okay .OwO, that's enough emotions for today told you how we saved the city of Raskin with a hairbrush God, I hope this works and now our giant mechanical Dragon death machine is walking on its own towards the now under attack city of Raskin after Someone *cough* *cough*~~~Sips... Reactivated it by putting back the dark spooky crystal into the dragon uWu What? So let's move on the group stares on as they see their ride slowly walk away. Should we do something about that? probably Anyway, I gotta go!! ~~~what?!?!~~~ ya!~~ see outside of game in the real world We took a small break after the Dragons started to walk because Julian and garthen had a baby No, not the characters the players get that fanfiction out of here Grr so.. due to them having a kid that kind of had to leave the campaign entirely and Take care of the kid so Julian and Yer thin which eventually turns back to Goran. Well, thank God peace right out right to Banda Rico Sorry die-hard Julian North End fans, but let's move on cool So the one guy who can fix the giant death robot is gone yep, well I'm out. Wait what you can't be serious. I mean you could at least teleport go check up on Raskin Or teleport us there. Oh, no. Oh, no. I can't I can't hear you over Me not caring No, no, wait mother friend. I Think it's time to go. Wait, hold on We're so close to getting the last four claimer crystal and opening the portal. It's literally right over there in the ruins Well the plot says we're going over there. Yeah jack rest comes obviously under attack So cities are under attack all the time. I mean alchemist quarry was just under attack yesterday cuz somebody Released an apocalypse of burner and destruction while singing terrible karaoke. Hey, yeah Come on, this singing is not that bad. I just can't believe it We've come all this way and finally for once we've almost reached a true archeological find that will forever go down in the history books and you want to go off for Potential weeks to save a city that you think is under attack so you could just what? Well send you a postcard No, we won't so we ditched a very few Jack and Managed to make our way onto the moving dragon towards rass command Uh, why is Abby here? Irina invited me to a potential war zone by Irina Can I talk to you for a second? You can't possibly be thinking of bringing this cotton candy ball to a place that's gonna be filled with destruction and death death, uh Arena, I thought we were going on an ice cream date. I mean she's like wait How old are you? 28 20 28 Are you sure? Hey, look I really like her I think she's cool cute and nice I want to go on a date with a cute red panda and you're not gonna blow this for me I hate this already. Should we be trying to figure out why exactly the dragon is walking on its own? There's no rush now Who wants to play cards? So on the back of the giant metallic death dragon? We play cards as we travel towards Raskin Then we see it a war-torn Roskam with an enemy army outside its gates Suddenly, we hear a deafening noise from the dragon as it comes to a sudden stop facing directly towards the city Then the dragon slowly opens its mouth and starts to charge up a large beam of Death on Rascam! You remember the dragon is powered partially on Souls well When we released all those souls from the crystal last episode It became low on power so it's instinct was to find more power This is why I was walking on its own. It went into survival mode to find a large source of souls aka Raskin with two armies plus a city. It's free souls galore alchemist Corey wasn't big enough apparently so you see it powers itself up by murdering Meat we try to take control but nothing works The dragon is dead locked on to the city ready to blast it into a smoldering crater Know something me aren't you a for climber? This is your attack do something me I don't have any memory of the four climbers. I don't know Stop it, the dragon continues to charge up its death beam as we're running around screaming till arena Maybe we move the head change the direction How I don't know you're a sorcerer magic Fly me new the head arena casts fly moves sips to a proper angle where he casts Blasting force pushing the head just as it shoots off its beam Missing most of Raskin blasting the side of the wall of the city aiming towards the enemy army vaporizing them in an instant Hey Lad Then we hear the dragon charging up again not rad So we dislodge it So crystal leaving it deactivated for now in the jungle Making our way to Raskin we arrived as welcomed heroes who destroyed the invading army with one Mighty blast the Baron tells us that the attacking army was one he had never heard of and unfortunately none of us recognized the banner but enough politics because in celebration of our Accidental victory the Baron decides to hold a fancy party that night in our honor With no eating people this time fancy party arena. That means no don't After some super awesome Reluctant clothes shopping. We are ready for the party. Why do I have to wear two shirts? Just one last? Mmm, okay also sips Finally gets black nail polish for his right hand to finish off the look So this is what true power feels like sips also gives Goffe a new mask and arena a necklace for helping sneeze but Thanks. Did you steal these if I told you to give you a +2 to your charisma? Would you care never mind? so we enter the party a large banquet hall jam-packed with food fun and fancy schmancy nests all in celebration of us a Whole bunch of people. Were there including texts is the spread 12 grain because I'll need 11 grain who we avoid and off at the buffet we spot a mother friend What are you doing here? Food no here in Raskin. I just Say no you were literally a level twenty wizard who could have teleported here defeated the army and saved the entire city Before we even got to the dragon Yeah You're right. I could of Okay, we're going over here now showing a be a crazy anime We dance arena and her Wow, everyone with their synchronized moves sparkles and glitter just everywhere Through all the booze as we hear a familiar slither the murderous Marilyn from Bunder eco back in episode 7 also known as mix s Ok, so there's stuff I had to cut about her for time but pretty much she's in scary evil Snake lady who we kind of made a truce with but could possibly kill us at any moment And we totally do not trust her. Oh and she has a major crush on Gotham so where's gore then, uh Dead what sips? Oh, yeah. He exploded just Fireball, you know it is what are you doing? He'll thank me later with the look of anguish and shocked She slithers away if she ever finds out you lied You will be dead. Hey, that's future sips this problem The party goes on people are playing party games sneezes cleaning out. Mr Risley at poker texts complains about something and arena flirts with our adorable red panda while they tear up the dance floor Gothy and sips watch on What did you want to dance or what Look, I don't know. I'm usually curse so I stay away from touching activities I've never danced with somebody before. Okay, so Wait, no. No, I changed my mind so off we dance the night away Which was a battle in itself since I rolled a four and gothy rolled a natural one on our perform. Oh God, none of us know how to dance but it really didn't matter for once our group finally got to relax and have fun after all the chaos of Alchemist Cory the Tarasque keenora resurrecting sneeze getting back zip his hand It was nice to finally just breathe and enjoy What we had accomplished as a player. I truly got to just appreciate sips. No curse. No worries Just a monkey that didn't know how to dance but Nothing lasts forever after dancing sips notices a table on the side that has blood moon berries on it the bad berries which are casually being eaten by guests turning them into monsters like a Fun party game. Are you guys crazy out? I'm tossing these What's the big deal last time these things? Almost got us killed or did you forget? Look everybody's having fun Chill out. I throw a berry in to subsist. Now. What? Uh, I Mean roll arranged attack, but even then you're gonna have to roll pretty high shrill 2000k felix has this Serious concerned expression on his face and takes a long pause Alright, this is what happens As sips as shouting arena expertly flicks a berry right down sips us throat, huh? What does then sips feels something like really lighten up? Crap What? 