- Okay, so let me get this straight. We've got a camera full
of the victim's pictures. We've got witness testimony
of illegal behavior. And we've got a doll made
out of the victim's hair? Gross. All right. Defense do you have any final
things you'd like to add? (chair scraping) Bruh, put your hand down. All right defendant what do
you have to say for yourself? (chair scraping)
(throat clearing) - You see, it all started
with a song called "The Less I Know The Better" by Tame -- - Guilty. - What? - Yeah, nah, nah, nah, nah, you are not vibing right now my G, you are definitely guilty. Get him out of here. (rubber squeaking) - No! - Hi, my name is Maaz, and
the girl who friend-zoned me is about to watch my videos about her. Now, I'd highly recommend
watching this video first, and then this one next
to get the full story about what's happened. But, to summarize it all, during my three years of middle school, I was very attracted to
this girl named Cherry, who I actively tried to pursue by being an awful human being. And I go into excruciating
details in my videos, but let's just say that I
fought with her about it, hated on the guys that
she was with, sang to her. That's all that I'm
allowed to say for now. (gun cocks) Now whilst I gained
Cherry's permission to make our stories into a video, I also expressly told her
not to watch them until I release both parts. And so she patiently waited, you know, seconds turning into hours, into months. And then finally (loud thud) Hi, are you ready to watch the video? (Cherry shrieks) We sat down as I recorded the audio, both of us poised and ready to
experience this train wreck. And, oh man, it really is
hard to listen to her roast me the entire time. W-w-w-wait, wait! Before we begin, I wanted
to mention that this video has not only been sponsored,
but also edited by Filmora 9. It is a super easy to use video editor. And if you click on the link
in the description below, you can have a free
download of the program. If you're interested to
see how I use Filmora 9 to edit this video, make sure to watch all the way to the end. See, that wasn't so bad. (shouting) (punching) Cherry! (shouting in pain) (punching) Dad? Will Cherry think I'm great? Will she think that I'm talented? Or will she think that I'm a total creep? 'Cause, yes, yes, the answer is yes. I was a total creep. And now, let's begin. - So hi guys, I'm here
in a call with Cherry, obviously not her real name. Hi Cherry. - [Cherry] Hey guys, how's it going Amaaz? - Cherry, have you seen the
videos that I've made about you? - [Cherry] No, I thought I'd, uh, wait. - Are you nervous about what was said, Like, what was actually happening? - [Cherry] Yeah, a little bit. I feel like - What do you reckon I'm gonna cover? What do you reckon is gonna happen? - [Cherry] Uh, I feel
like I'm gonna put you in the friend-zone again, but. - So, you wanna watch the first one? - [Cherry] Yup, sounds good. - You're so nice, Maaz. - Yeah, it's really no problem at all. (deep breath) Now give me a smooch. - Wait, what? - I think I deserve a little smooch. - Thank God I wasn't like
this with you, you know. (laughs) - And here I was, being so nice to you. Women are trash! (screeches) (laughing) - Women trash, okay? That's just how it is. - [Cherry] I mean, I knew it. No Nut November? - It all began before grade 8. During the Australian summer holidays. Around this time, there
was a special program for gifted children, so that they're able to
check out their middle school in advance. - I just wanna say that, um,
any time you wanna, like, pause and ask for more details,
or like, really question me, like, "What is this? What's
happening?", you know, "You got this wrong.",
that'd be fantastic. - [Cherry] All right, cool, cool. Then you'll know that the
gifted and talented program was actually towards the end of grade 7? So it wasn't like, summer holidays, right? - Oh really? - [Cherry] Yeah, yeah. 'Cause, yeah. I wasn't in the country
for the summer holidays. - All right, there you go. You're already beat me on one. Thanks, Cherry. (laughing) - [Cherry] It's all good. - I knew I was gonna get
into the program because Mommy said I was special. And it was in this
program that I met Cherry. Now, keep in mind... - That's you! - [Cherry] Yeah! - [Cherry] Can I just say
you've got my hairstyle and everything to the T? Like, you've actually
done it the way I wear it? - Dude, let me tell you. So I actually, like,
brought back images of you from middle school. This girl, the person that's voicing you, her name's Jaiden Animations. And her hairstyle is like
that, and when I saw that hairstyle, I was actually
reminded of your hairstyle. And so I was like, "Dude, if
I ever make a story about you, it would be with Jaiden." And it actually happened, so there you go. - [Cherry] Yeah, well, really good. - [Animated Maaz] So
back then I used to live in a small, rural town, out in Australia. And, let's just say that
there weren't that many ethnic-cultured, diversity... - They were all white, weren't they? - Yeah, it was all white people. And that might be why I
was attracted to Cherry in the first place. Because, at the time, I
must've thought of her as this Indian Goddess or something. And, since I was the only other
brown guy in my year level, I thought it was destiny
for us to be together. Cherry! - Maaz! (laughing) - [Cherry] That song, oh my God. That song by Daler Mehndi, oh my God. - Dude, okay, I know you hate Bollywood, but that song slaps, okay? - [Cherry] Oh my God, that
was my favorite song as a kid. My dad would play it for
me as a baby all the time, and I would go crazy for it. - "Tunak Tunak" is my
life right now, okay? - Hey BSAUCE, Maaz here. Now, the boys. What is it and how can I be part of it? - [Cherry] Wait, what's BSAUCE? (laughs) - So there's a YouTube channel
called "VSAUCE", right? And basically they start off
the music exactly like that, and they just, like, "Hi,
VSAUCE, Michael here.". And they, like, they give
you some science fact, and I'm parodying them by saying "BSAUCE". - [Cherry] Ah, good good, okay, so, okay. - She even mentioned how everyone else in the group was white, and
how we had to stick together. Like, it was meant to be. - [Cherry] Wait, I don't
remember saying that. - I remember us talking
about the fact that we literally were the
only two brown people in the entire year level. - [Cherry] Oh my God, yeah, we were. - What do you mean? Did you not notice it back then? - [Cherry] No, I honestly didn't realize. - Bruh. - Chocolate with caramel,
with a cherry on top. - [Cherry] That's so bad. - Cherry on top. - All of the guys that
she's dated has been part of the boys. (inhales) - Sweet, that means that
she'll eventually get around to dating me. - I legitimately thought that. Like, I'm not even being gross. Okay, it is pretty gross. I was just like, "You know
what? I'm just gonna wait. You know, eventually, you'll
be my turn, you know?" - [Cherry] Ew, oh, ew. "Oh yes, she'll be done with him, I'll just get a turn eventually.". - Dude, I know, I know, I
know, I get it, it's gross. I'm awful, I get it. Super, super bad level of logic there. Look, I was like, "Hey,
you know, she's cute, she's gone around, maybe
she'll get to me.", and so. - [Cherry] Oh my God. - I'm sorry. I'm sorry. - I thought it was a game, like, Bop-It. Yeah! Oh boy! Twist it! This is lit! Date it! - Wait, what? (laughing) - Wait a minute, am I a
psychopath, a yandere? - I mean, you did kinda stab your brother and kill a duck, so, yeah, probably. - [Cherry] Wait, what? - Yeah, uh, that's two
other videos of mine. I stabbed my baby brother
in Japan, with a knife. A fake knife. And I may or may not
have drowned a duck, so. - [Cherry] Why the (bleep)
did you drown a duck? - That's literally what
everybody asks, dude. - A few months later in grade 9, I got another bombshell -
Cherry was dating Bilbo. Now, you might be thinking
that I was shocked at the sudden change, or annoyed that she was
smooching on some other boy that wasn't me, or, I don't know. - [Cherry] Bilbo and I never smooched, and we were only together
for, like, two weeks. - Look, don't worry, this is
just me going on a little, like, on a joke spree. But like, I do note the fact that you guys didn't date super serious. - [Cherry] Yeah, okay, cool. - Okay, awesome. - Women... Are... Queens! (laughing) - [Cherry] I love him! - The cop is my favorite
character, I love him so much. - [Cherry] Me too, me too. - Oh, I woke up with amnesia. You're just like, "Oh,
I hate this guy, man, Maaz is cursed. - [Cherry] No, no, I'm sorry. - Ah, it's merchandise
stuff, now it's all good. - [Cherry] I will have to get
some merchandise, I think. - Ooh, girl, all right, you know. I'm legitimately wearing
some of my own merchandise in my video, so it's like, "Hey, do you want some
of this slick merch?". It's at crowdmade.com/theamaazing
if you wanna get some. Go for it, you know. - [Cherry] Definitely will, yeah. - So how do you feel about
after the first video? Like, how accurate was it? - [Cherry] Pretty accurate, for sure. I felt like you definitely
captured that pretty well. - Easy, all right, so let's watch part 2. This one's, like, a spicier one, okay? This one's more cringe,
because this one's called "Breaking out of the Friend-Zone". - Now without, further ado. - Maaz, I'm breaking up with you. - James, James no! No! - You don't know it,
sorry, you don't know it. - [Cherry] James is in
the picture now, too? (laughs) - James is a really good friend of mine, who is another creator as
well, right, TheOdd1sOut. I'm not into dudes. - [Cherry] Okay, if you say so. - If you say so. No, don't worry, I'm not into dudes. - So here's a quick recap. Cherry, this beautiful
brown queen, asked me, the loser, friend-zoned Maaz,
to watch a movie with her. Hello. - You're such a queen, oh my God. - [Animated Maaz] She
was actually just like... - Wow! I can't wait to
see Twilight New Moon with my best buddy, 'ole pal Maaz. - [Cherry] Oh my God, I
cannot actually believe that I was keen to watch that movie, what was wrong with me? - Oh my God, I'm so glad you remember. Because you were so keen, like, "Maaz, legit, come over.". And I was like, "Legit? Alone?". And you were like, "Yes.", and I was like, "What the!",
you know, shaking my head. And then I come over, and you're like, "Yeah, we're gonna watch Twlight.". And I was like, "What the?". - [Cherry] Ah, I'm so sorry. - I was so nervous that entire
time, 'cause I was like, "I don't know how to read this at all.". Like, "Is she trying to
hit on me? Is she, like, not trying to?". Also, it was this one motorbike scene. - [Cherry] I was gonna bring that up! - What was with that then? - [Cherry] Did you see the
way she crashed the motorbike? It was hilarious. - Dude, you rewound that
over and over and over. - [Cherry] Honestly, I thought that was the funniest thing ever. - I wanna give this final rose to... - [Animated Maaz] Oh
no, Cherry, it's okay. I'd like to gracefully... - [Cherry] Oh my God,
do I give it to J Dog? Is that who I give it to? - Just watch it, just watch it. - [Cherry] Oh, okay, all right, all right. - ... accept the final rose... - [Animated Cherry] J Dog. (laughing) - [Cherry] What? Is that supposed
to be a making out sound? It sounds like somebody
demolishing a burrito or something. (laughing) - When I recorded it, I just
was like (exaggerated chewing). - [Animated Maaz] Cherry
said that she could spend her time however she wanted. And if she wanted to hang
out with J Dog and not me, then that's that. And oh, man, I was so not okay with that. - [Cherry] I do remember when
you were pissed off with me. You kept, really pissed me off, because you kept singing that stupid song. - No, no, no, no, what did I do? What did I do, what are you talking about? - [Cherry] I'd come sit
next to you in class, and you'd mumble something,
and I'd be like, "What?". And then you'd be like, "Oh, nothing.". And then, like, in art
class, you'd just, like, be all dramatic and walk off. Like, as if I was (inaudible), honestly, I'd be like, "Hey Maaz.",
and then you'd just, like, dramatically walk off, and
then be humming this stupid. - I'm cringing so hard. - [Cherry] You're cringing?
I had to go through that! - Oh my God, I'm sorry. I just wanted to say that
I'm sorry, man, all right? - I actually remember
how, because I was, like, so fricking annoyed by her doing this, that whenever I'd passed by her at lunch, I used to sing the song "Somebody that I Used to Know" by Gotye. - [Cherry] You wanker! My God! - Of course I wouldn't forget that. It was so, it was so sad. Why did I decide to do this video? - [Cherry] Yeah, that was a
dramatic song, it really was. - I felt like I was a
protagonist in a romance movie, you know, I was meant to get the girl, but then this white dude comes in, gets the girl instead, you know? The camera spinning around
me like a Bollywood movie. - You didn't have to cut me off. (laughs) - So bad, so bad. - Now, I just, kind of whispered it. - [Cherry] See! I was so right. You would just, like,
mumble it, or whisper it, so you had to get my attention. - I was like, you know, "Would
she notice if I mumbled it? Would she notice?", so lame. And the worst part's
coming up, right now, man. - [Animated Maaz] We have an alpha male, we have a beta male, and
then you have an omega male. Okay, that was, that was me. And guys, this thing
went on for six months. - So long! - [Animated Maaz] I was whispering
this song for six months! You didn't have to cut me off. - Wait, what was he
saying? Wait, who was that? - No, no, no, probably some loser. - [Animated Maaz] When Cherry and J Dog broke up in a horrible way, I knew that she was genuinely heartbroken. - Do you remember that, the entire saga? That entire, dramatic thing that happened. - [Cherry] Ah, yes, what
a horrible way for a fifteen year old to break
up with their boyfriend. - Even back then, even with,
like, my garbage tier logic, I knew that that was messed up, "I gotta make sure that she's okay.". And it's like, I think that's honestly how we ended off year 10, in, like, kind of an uphill swing, ya know? Sure, we kinda fought, and argued, mumbled songs at each other. But eventually I think we got on to the right track a little. - [Cherry] Yeah, yeah, definitely. - [Animated Maaz] I mean, look at me. How could she not fall for this? - Oh, I'm so bad. - [Cherry] Look at the photo! - Dude, I legit look like
that, and I was like, "Huh, I wonder why, 'cause
I'm pretty charismatic, I'm pretty confident.". And then I look back, and I
look back, and I'm just like, "Oh, yeah, that's why.". Like a twig, you know,
you could snap me in half. - [Animated Maaz] So I kinda
just, like, low key asked her about why she dated the guys
in our squad specifically. - Oh, that's easy, it's because
I'm really into white dudes. - [Cherry] No way did I say that. - You totally said that,
you 100% said that, 'cause it's seared into my brain. And we were, like, talking
about all this stuff, and you're like, "Maaz, who
do you want to be with?". And then that's when I said
all the stuff about, like, "I wanna be with this girl.". And then you were like, "Oh,
I'm only into white guys.". And in my head I was like, "Oh.". - [Animated Maaz] It's actually crazy, because I called her up
after, like, five years, to ask permission to make this story. But during the call, I said
something along the lines of, "Hey, you know how I really liked you during middle school?". - Wait, you were into me in middle school? - But legit, do you remember that? This was when I asked for
your permission, and was like, "Oh yeah, it's gonna be about how, um, you know, I was into you.". And you were just like,
"What? You were into me?". And I was like (explosion). On the phone, I was like,
"How have I not told you yet? How do you not know that?". - [Cherry] Yeah, like I am obviously just super clueless about things. - Don't worry. - [Cherry] Wouldn't be the first person, apparently my sister reckons
that I've done this before, so. - I don't even, like, doubt you. Anybody who would whisper,
mumble six months of a song, you know, I think it's fair enough to assume that they don't
like you, that's fair. - [Cherry] Yeah, I mean I definitely got the wrong message out of that one. - I wish I could go back in time just to meet middle
school Maaz, and be like, "Hey! Stop being such
a terrible human being, and just confess, you fricking idiot! And oh, (loud smack), respect women!". - [Police Officer] Please
do not assault children. - Frick! - [Cherry] Well, I,
um, that was very good, I'm clapping, I don't
know if you can hear. - Thank you so much, how
do you feel about it? Was it, like, did I
cover, did I not cover? - [Cherry] I was a bit nervous,
like, before watching it. But now that I've watched it, I was like, "Oh, that's nothing to worry about.". I'm really proud of you,
actually, 'cause I, um, obviously you know my technical abilities. - You're a grandma, can't
use it, fair enough. - [Cherry] You're doing
so well on YouTube, and you got, like, so many
views, and I'm just like, "Wow, that is my, that's my Maazi.". That's my friend, Maazi
with an I, not a Y. (angelic choir) - My heart! That's so nice, thank you so much, I appreciate it. Look, you're in two videos now, you know. - [Cherry] I'm famous now. - You're famous, yeah, you're, like, played by Jaiden Animations,
and you're in my videos, so. - [Cherry] Yeah, they're definitely a nice learning experience, but I'd
do things differently for sure. - Who knows, we might
meet each other, you know, who knows, high five each other again. - [Cherry] Yeah, yeah, well, maybe. I plan to do a little road trip soon, so I might catch up with you then? - Easy, all right, it's a date. (funky upbeat music) - Yeah, so that's why I'm in prison. Now, look, uh, when can I leave? That was foolish, perhaps
I did go a little too far. - [Maaz] I'm sorry for the long video, I actually had this recorded ages ago, but only decided to upload it now, as a way to keep my uploads consistent. If you are still listening to this video, I've got a secret mission
for you guys, all right? I want you guys to say some random slander in the comments below. Like, "Oh my gosh,
Maaz, I like this video, but the part where you called PJ a scoundrel was a bit too far.". You know, like random stuff
that will make people paranoid. Or, you know, you don't
have to, I don't know, it's up to you, do what you want. And with that, I'll catch
you guys in the next video. All right, laters everybody,
and stay Amaazing. (funky jazz music) 