(Today also, IDOL TOUR bus carries Apink..) (Where is IDOL TOUR's second trip?) (1. Siheung Gaetgol Eco Park) (Gyeonggi-do's only Naeman Gaetgol) (The first-class ecological
environment area where you can feel the atmosphere of the old salt field) (If you go up to the Rocking Observatory which is a landmark)
(you can see the outstanding scenery of the Gaetgol) Wow, the weather is nice (Today also, Apink's mood is clear)
Wow, the weather is nice (Today also, Apink's mood is clear)
The sky is really clear today (Motivation MAX, EUN JI guide)
Okay, everyone (She is cute lol) I can't open my eyes We can't open our eyes because of sunlight Now that we are here (A sample of 'careless but affectionate' that makes the hearts of fan)
Now that we are here (A sample of 'careless but affectionate' that makes the hearts of fan)
There is a landmark here (They are goint to take a special car to the landmark)
We are going to move through that car over there Uh? We are not walking? No we're not - Because you are EUN JI guide
- I don't really like walking I feel like I'm at an amusement park We are not JOO-JI-RONG (NAM JOO,
EUN JI, CHO RONG) now, We are riding (We will take you on a wide Eco Park tour
through an electric car) It is fun Hello, I am flying toward to
the observatory Bye, everyone Bye This is the salt field (Salt field experience center in Gaetgol Eco Park)
They are doing it now (Salt field experience center in Gaetgol Eco park)
Oh, they are doing it now Doesn't that look like a jewel?
Twinkle, twinkle (Salt is in shining like a jewel because of the
sunlight) It is the jewel of the sea Director... Do I look like a human being now? (Her hair is already like a pictorial
because of the wind) Wow, but our background
looks so pretty here The background is pretty But I don't look human The background only is pretty (KIM NAM JOO is a human Pocari Sweat) (KIM NAM JOO's beauty stands out due to the natural light and refreshing beauty)
Hi, bye, everyone (Sing live without music is suddenly boosted)
Blue sky IDOL TOUR (I think we have heard it somewhere)
(Instant logo song of IDOL TOUR) (Where did sweet JOO-JI-RONG arrive to?)
We arrived (Landmark which is Rocking Observatory at
Siheung Gaetgol Eco Park) (We told Idol to tour but they
are filming a commercial) (It is a picture even if taken in the sky)
(It is a picture even if taken on the ground) If you go up here, you will be able to
take a picture to post on SNS I am hungry There is a convenience store up there Wow (Of course it is a lie) We can eat ramen after hiking, right? Yes Guide, we have to go up and eat
ramen, right? Yes, there is a convenience store up there (Wink)
Yes (JOO-JI-RONG is climbing the stairs
looking at the view) Wow, It is really beautiful We are healing Idol That is right Guide, your back looks so miserable It is not true, I am in a good mood now I feel like we are really here to play - Oh, this is how it shakes
- Oh, it is really shaking - Oh, I..
- We are almost there - I am scared
- NAM JOO, if you stand still, you will shake I am scared (Idol's identity)
(With freshness even if it is shaken) - It is really shaking
- Do you want me to take a picture? No, no, no (Guide is ready)
(model is ready) (Telescope is an essential part
of the observatory) (Siheung is strange,
why is it so dark here) (Look at NAM JOO only, look at me only) - Today, we are
- We are happy people succumbed to grief We are happy people succumbed to grief (# Gloomy)
We are happy people succumbed to grief (# Gloomy) (Is this the place with the
atmosphere of Siheung?) (#A photobook made by natural light) Bye Wow, it is fun to shake (Laughing, laughing) It is pretty - Is this how I smile?
- You are pretty, huh? (Ecological learning center)
Yes, everyone, where we have come now - What?
- The staff team prepared A surprise event for us What kind of event? If you get a lot of badges, We will give you a gift
in proportion to them We should find it a lot - Let's go
- Okay, let's go Can we actually look at those? Guide Is there no more water coming in here? (A girl in a white dress walks like
she is possessed) No (Smile)
I don't think so (She finds a ship at anchor)
Sea water coming in, huh? (NAM JOO acquires the first badge)
Hey (NAM JOO acquires the first badge) (Huh?)
Gain item - Gain item
- Gain item Where did you find it? I just found here (Her eyes have changed) (3 people suddenly became busy)
Wait a sec, I acquirer it - Honestly, we should play this individually
- Uh, here it is (Specialized in competition) (Shaking) You can take it Thank you (However, when a badge is seen,
their competition heats up) Find it - My contribution is the greatest
- NAM JOO started again Here it is, huh? (EUN JI behind easily gets a badge)
It is a team game This is a redfooted Snipe It is cute I don't want to go with NAM JOO (Camera director for NAM JOO at Petit France(best runner) CAM)
Director, why are you meeting me again (Camera director for NAM JOO at Petit France(best runner) CAM)
And going through a hard time Wow No, what is it? I have contributed 100 I have contributed 1000 Oh, what is it (NAM JOO packed all the badges
in the ecological study center) Director, look at that EUN JI, look at that crab (EUN JI is running, hi crab) (EUN JI is running, hi crab)
Wow, it is really big Why is its arm only big on one arm? A big event There it is, too Here it is (This isn't discovery, it is just seeing..huh?)
There it is (This isn't discovery, it is just seeing..huh?)
Hey, here it is Wow, EUN JI, there are two of them here Uh? hey, what is that? That is moving, huh? That is a mudskipper Shall we cheer up a little bit? - That is moving, right?
- Right, right? did you see that? Here it is, here it is (I am happy to see the mudskipper) You guys have so many questions I am on my way What should I do, it is so cute,
it is washing its face No, why does it keep washing
its face, it is cute I want to see that, too The babies are washing their face AH haha, they are cute They are washing their face Continuously, continuously They keep doing like that They are cute They seem like eating a worm in a mud flat I am going to take a picture of
the calendar (She is always one step ahead) Uh? Did you call me? (#Didn't call you) (Time to settle badges)
How many did you find it? - One
- One (Acquired 7 out of 9 badges in total) A gift.. The badge we found is a gift, right? Yes So the person who finds a lot has
a contribution score? Are there any prize for participation? (Cute animal sticker)
Thank you Oh, that sticker, that sticker Wow, I am a Diary decorater Wow, I really like this gift (#Did you see a crab with
only one arm big) (#KIM NAM JOO will win anyways) (All YOS coming down)
Wow, today is HA YOUNG's tour With NA EUN (Can I take a rest today?) (2. Gimpo Art Village)
This is Gimpo Art Village (It is a complex cultural space)
(where you can experience both tradition and modernity) (Can experience various workshops of traditional games and culture and arts)
I wanted to come here (Including Hanok experience) Today is the ART tour ART is NA EUN Ask me everything About ART? Wow, it is so pretty I want to live like this place My dream is to live in a dirt house There is a swing It is CHUNHYANG's swing Today, two of us can.. (YOS got excited form the beginning)
Today, two of us can.. Take pictures here YOON CHUNHYANG and SON CHUNHYANG JOO-JI-RONG (They swing the loudest in the world) You guys, did you see me? We are having a lot of fun (It is real, it is real) Hey, hey, stop it (Ha ha ha) (# Where is LEE DORYEONG)
(#the coordinates are Gimpo Art Village) Don't pose Just feel like you are pushing
NAEUN naturally Oh, okay Natually (We don't know where it is natural)
(Let's just say it is natural) (Ha. ha. ha. ha) (NA EUN is not natural
because it is natural) (Natural laugh)
(natural expression) (This is the ART calendar photo)
(Of Apink YOS) (#Don't be awkward, NONONOO)
(#Shake the swing, shake me) (#Have no awkwardness at all)
(#Nobody can pose like this %%) Wow, it makes me scare Right? This looks like a Viking, right? I think This could lead to a fall (Perfect timing with the entertainment god) (If you like the god of entertainment so much)
(I will leave you) (OH HA YOUNG has secured enough footage)
I am sorry (OH HA YOUNG has secured enough footage)
I am sorry, I am sorry (OH HA YOUNG's bursting YOS tour) Please throw it back again Put it on my feet, please (Throw her shoes in earnest and
put it on HA YOUNG's feet?) It is a mission, a mission Put it on my feet (A person who is really going to do it) You stick it in here Cinderella (Failed) (Success) (Success)
(It is not) (What is this useless tension...?) (Stick it inside smoothly) (No one made HA YOUNG do a mission) (Success) (It was a good mission) (It is so much fun) Where is ART? We are going to make a handmade doll Isn't that ART There is a lot of ART in here Wow, it is so cute It is cute - This is the same as the 3 of us
- I also think this is so cute I want yellow It's like YOS Her feet is twisted so much, you know? Originally, the beauty of
such dolls comes from their feet Which taste is that? A cute taste (Silent...) (Pulling it down) (And, no one talked thereafter) (Why are there 4 chairs?)
I guess someone is sitting here An invited guest? Please come out (A sudden doll drama)
Hello (Silent...) (An expert shows up)
I'm a rapper She's coming out Hello You really look like dolls No (Apink dolls she prepared earlier show up) NA EUN HA YOUNG This is BO MI then NAM JOO CHO RONG EUN JI
It's got the same hair with EUN JI It's really amazing, thank you First of all, this is NAM JOO's yellow hair (It must be so fun) (NA EUN's eyes are shining as doll-making starts)
Oh, this is mine It's the same with my clothes Amazing - When we promoted Dumhdurum
- We were wearing purple ones in Dumhdurum though I know Let us not decorate each one's doll NA EUN should work on mine And I'll work on HA YOUNG's I feel unsettled, huh? I feel unsettled, huh?
I'd like to work on mine though - No
- I also want to work on mine No (How come a sad prediction
never goes wrong) - Just decorate me pretty
- Ah, okay okay (Once for HA YOUNG, once for the doll)
(BO MI is working so hard on it) Come on!!!!! (At a glance, it's got a different world view)
Ah really, BO MI (I knew this was gonna happen)
Ah really, BO MI chose the wrong one - Ah then, what should I do, how can I draw
- Ah, really How come it's so ugly? (We'll reveal HA YOUNG doll that BO MI made soon)
Hey, can't you just make (We'll reveal HA YOUNG doll that BO MI made soon)
The one without face as me? What should I do with NA EUN's lips? Make it look sexy How come I got purple eyes? I matched it since your clothes are purple - I also tied your hair, you know
- The eyes.. Are they looking above? (Purple NA EUN is glazing at somewhere)
Yes, a little bit like this What do you want me to do with BO MI? Uh, I like blusher so much I like monobrows so much The lips are small I'd like you to emphasize
the dot below her eyes (An artist's eyes observing the object) BO MI (doll) looks so cute Look at it (Why is YOS bursting out
laughing at the same time?) BO MI's dad Dad It looks just like my dad Hey, he's my dad Wow really, the eyebrows are my dad's Does NAM JOO do make up a bit dark usually? Originally, there's no answer
in such art like this (I guess NAM JOO's hair was shorter..) (I should cut it)
Cut cut (Cut to be a bobbed hair) HA YOUNG, it's good, it's fun I should have asked NA EUN to do it for me Isn't this my real dad? (She becomes polite to a doll somehow every time she sees it) (She becomes polite to a doll somehow every time she sees it)
Dad Dad (#Half BO MI half dad #one doll with two faces)
BO MI I should make EUN JI to sit down also HA YOUNG is a bit short though,
it's like this originally.. It's not just the height
that's the problem for me A centipede is drawn on its eyes.. (Roughly expressed HA YOUNG's pink cheek) (Expressed HA YOUNG's long lashes in avant-garde way)
(Abstractly expressed HA YOUNG's cute lips) (No matter how many time I see, sigh.. I can't help it)
Ah, hey... Hey, I feel so sad You feel sad? Give it to me, give it to me,
give it to me A surgery on NA EUN has started (HA YOUNG, don't cry) (I'll save this child for you) (Transformed from centipede eyes to clear eyes)
Wow, it became the prettiest, HA YOUNG Hey (It's more pretty because she made it herself)
Thank you (It's more precious since it's like me) (Handmade vintage dolls)
Smiles with eyes, smile with eyes If we keep these, it's gonna be
our real memory, right? Yes Let the wind blow strongly It's so cold, so cold I heard that this cool wind is (3. Gwangmyeong Cave)
Blown naturally like this And inside it, There's a place that I like There's a wirony inside here Ah? Oh? - Whyrano
- Whyrano - Let's go in
- Okay (Gwangmyeong Cave) (Korea's best cave)
(Famous for being a theme park) (Shooting a life photo under the cave's light)
(You could also taste wines) Wow, the cave Hey, it's called Wind Road here Hey, feel the wind right now (How come we could see
their breathes in this hot summer) The lighting is so neatly done Really But it's too cold Right? Should I give this to you? No Since I'm thinking 'I'm not cold' (Come here NAM JOO, I'll make you warm)
it doesn't feel cold It's really pretty,
it's like the place in Avatar (Gwangmyeong Cave's landmark)
(which brings out their sentiment) Hey, it says we should do this for sure
when we come here (EUN JI)
This place is from Avatar (Wink) Since it's the space from Avatar - Ah, I think I heard it too
- Right? (Attempts to commune with the flowers) - What did the flower say to you?
- It says it's cold (Calendar photo time)
Try to commune with it (#I'm looking at you) (#We're shining even inside a cave) (#JOO-JI-RONG does not know
what B-cut means) It's like La La Land, NAM JOO (Jumping jumping) Oh, it's beautiful You're really pretty (Fluttering fluttering) Dance, dance (A fancy step) (Even her outfits are perfectly matched) She's excited (Bright, fussy, and cute) (A life shot for every camera shoot)
It's pretty, it's pretty (A life shot for every camera shoot) (Jumping jumping) You like it? (Jumping) (KIM NAM JOO sings a song suddenly as her signature)
I'm assured of Who that person is (NAM JOO says she's feeling good this much) Hey, this place is called
the Goddess of Abundance Come to me, wealth and happiness The force Please come in, wealth and happiness Don't you think JOO-JI-RONG will
receive lots of wealth and happiness? Wealth and happiness I feel so grateful Thank you It's called the Golden Tablet Wall of Hope People just hang all of these here Please let my beloved people
to be healthy And please allow our solo album
Simple to make a great hit It's quite a detailed favor Please let us make a good song - Please let me always be with
- She shows her character The people I love Let us Apink make a great hit
& let's buy a house (She shows her character as it is)
(A charming time for writing their wishes) (JOO-JI-RONG calls someone suddenly) Hello? - HA YOUNG
- Yes If you say your wishes,
we'll write it and hang it here - Oops
- Amazing I'd like Apink to grow more from now The most important one is The success on diet, you know I'll put a star on it HA YOUNG, HA YOUNG HA YOUNG (Considering..) I wish that Ohhabbang channel
would make a success - Write something like this
- Right right, that one Please make her have more than
1 million subscribers I'd like to see our PANDA often Our PANDA Should I write 'please make NA EUN
to succeed in whatever she does' Yes I got it,
we'll hang it here beautifully Everyone, this is the place with a winery That we wanted to visit the most It's CHUSA WINE from Yesan Seeing it once with our eyes Smelling it with our noses Keep it in our mouthes shortly,
and we should drink it - It's delicious
- It's so sweet - Apple juice..
- Yes (They got into the wine so much)
(the non-drinker wants to drink the grape juice) (Eyes wide opened) You guys open your eyes widely
all of a sudden, huh? Is it a day we get drunk? Are we gonna walk with four feet today (Be sure to take even the
last calendar photo as well) (#We drank it in a good mood)
(#Would you have a glass with JOO-JI-RONG?) (See you in 4th episode of IDOL TOUR to see all members of Apink) (See you in 4th episode of IDOL TOUR to see all members of Apink)
Were you eating? Were you eating? What is it - What is it?
- We came because we missed you Amazing, hey (Apink IDOL TOUR)
(JOO-JI-RONG Gyeonggi-do EG bus tour map) (Gwangmyeong Cave in Siheung Gaetgol Eco Park)
(Grand Coteau Winery in Ansan City) (YOS Gyeonggi-do EG bus tour map) (Gimpo Art Village)
(Bucheon B39, and Jebudo Island) 