Number 10 are Girls On The Stairs. In 1974, author Stephen
King spent an night in the infamous Stanley Hotel in Colorado, later calling it the perfect,
maybe the archetypal, setting for a ghost story,
and used it as his inspiration for his best selling novel, "The Shining". Numerous accounts of ghost
sightings have been reported at that hotel, but one photo
taken of the alleged ghost ended up leaving a
former FBI agent baffled. The picture was taken by John Mausling, who snapped a photo of his
family from the staircase while on a spirit tour. Of the 11 people present on the tour, none were the size or age of a kid. Yet the blurry image of the young girl can be seen descending from the steps. Former federal agent Ben Hanson
has looked into the image and found no evidence of
anything being altered, meaning what we see here is very real. Number nine is the Spy House. If you're looking for an eerie experience, specifically one in which ghosts of kids are running around you, then
take a trip to Port Monmouth, a town in New Jersey where
one building is considered one of the most haunted places in America. Since the Monmouth County Park
System acquired it in 1998, the building has been renamed
the Seabrook-Wilson House, and serves as an activity center. However, locals still recognize
it by its previous name, the Spy House. Visitors have encountered
multiple ghosts there, but arguably the creepiest
of them have been those of the kids who
have been seen and heard giggling to each other as they
chase each other in circles. They've been known to
pull pranks, as well, untying people's shoes, changing
the time on wrist watches, or making cameras stop working. Number eight is Ghost Boy Bridge. When it comes to the Ghost Boy Bridge, which is part of Clinton Road
in West Milford, New Jersey, there are actually multiple stories, each one more eerie than the last. Clinton Road itself is considered by many to be the most haunted roadway in America. But this bridge, which allows
passage over a waterway called Clinton Brook, has
ghost hunters flocking to it. Legend has it that if you
were to leave a quarter on the yellow line, essentially
the middle of the road on the bridge, the ghost of a young boy who drowned in the creek
below will return it to you. Other variations describe the
boy appearing before a person who leaves the coin, while
yet another tells of the ghost pushing the person into the water and potentially to their tragic end. Regardless, this might be a bridge you want to avoid crossing. Number seven are the Railroad Kids. According to legend, sometime
between 1930 and 1949, a bus carrying seven school
kids was driving along a road in San Antonio, Texas, when it broke down, coming to a stop directly
on a railroad crossing. The driver realized moments
after the bus stopped that a train was barreling down on them. So he attempted to evacuate
everyone on the bus. Sadly, there was no time, and the crash claimed 10 of the students, along with the bus driver. Today, it's said that if you
park your car on the tracks and wait, the car will
be physically pushed until it's moved out of potential danger. People have been known to
sprinkle flower on the back of their vehicles before
performing the experiment only to find multiple hand-prints marking where the students' ghosts
have pushed it forward. Number six is the Andrew Jackson Hotel. As one of New Orleans'
most haunted hotels, it's little wonder that
the Andrew Jackson Hotel has drawn so many ghost hunters and paranormal researchers to it. In 1794, two different
fires caused sever damage to the hotel and claimed the
lives of five young boys. The ghost of those children are said to still haunt the building to this day. Guests and employees of
the hotel have reported hearing kids playing and
laughing outside in the courtyard late at night, only to find no
visible source for the noises when they investigate. And at least one guest has
seen the ghost of a boy after his television
turned on all by itself, and he moved to turn it off
only to find a young boy sitting in front of the device. The guest shouted, causing
the ghost to vanish into the night. Number five is Mommy? After he began having
that unmistakable feeling that unseen things were following him as he moved around his
apartment, Steve Huff, better known as the
YouTuber Huff Paranormal, started posting videos in which he tried to communicate with them. The Arizona-based paranormal researcher believes that the ghost, or
ghosts, that are haunting him followed him home from
a previous investigation as many spirits have
been known to do that. And according to his recorded evidence, at least one of them was a kid. After his dog began acting strangely and seemingly saw something
that wasn't there, Huff grabbed his GoPro and recorded a few minutes of the room. What he got back were a few EVPs, or electronic voice phenomenon. The voice of a kid calling
out mommy can be heard along with some ramblings. - [Kid] Mommy, come out. Mommy, come out. Mommy, come out. Come over here. Come over here. I'm on the rug now. (door unlatches) Number four is the Ursuline Convent. Although it's well known
for stories of vampires and casket girls, the Ursuline Convent in New Orleans, Louisiana,
has some additional occupants that are actually much creepier. Originally built as a religious
institution and orphanage, this building has been
transformed into a museum, but some of its original
tenants might still be around. Multiple guests and tour
guides, have heard the sounds of kids playing with the bulk
of the paranormal activity occurring in the building's courtyard. Stranger still, though the
kids were not really there, the sounds they were making
seemed to get much louder as those who could hear them
approached the yard's gate. Some visitors have even laid eyes on them. But are they ghost, or,
as some experts claim, just the past replaying
over and over again? Number three is the Begging Boy. The old ruins of a castle in
the village of Castlelyons in Cork County, Ireland,
are said to be haunted by the ghost of an unidentified young boy who goes around begging
people for something. But what makes this story truly unsettling is that the boy isn't
begging for change or food like some other ghost that
have been encountered. He's pleading for his life to be spared. The apparition, which has been given the appropriate nickname the Begging Boy, roams about the ruins
spreading an aura of depression as he moves along. It's been said that from
the boy's perspective, he keeps reliving the final
moments of his short life, begging for the forgiveness
of the castle's former owner, which tragically would never
and will never come to him. Number two are the Black-Eyed Kids. Since the 1980s, tales
of the Black-Eyed Kids have terrified millions,
especially in 1996 when Brian Bethal, a
reporter from Abilene, Texas, encountered a pair of them. Bethal was parked in a
parking lot when two boys tapped on his window and
asked for a ride home. Right away, the man felt
like something was off. He then noticed the boys'
eyes, which were totally black with no irises or pupils at all. It didn't take long for Bethal to decide to quickly peel out of there. While many claim that
these young looking beings are vampires or aliens
from another planet, the prevailing theory
is that they're ghosts. But we really only know
what happens to those who refuse to provide help
to the Black-Eyed Kids, and it's not good. And number one is Dear David. On August 7, 2017, writer
and illustrator, Adam Ellis, posted on Twitter that he was
being haunted by the ghost of a young boy with a misshapen head who meant him serious harm. For months, the New York
resident had been seeing the boy in his dreams, one of which presented him with the boy's nickname, Dear David. But after Ellis asked him
one too many questions, David began manifesting
himself in the real world. Ellis captured pictures
and video of Dear David, posting all of it to Twitter. Dedicated followers of
the story began analyzing everything he posted and
actually discovered things not even Ellis had noticed, including silhouettes in doorways and David's face in reflections. The entire Dear David incident
scared so many people online that it's now being made
into a feature film. 