- What is up? Check out where we ended up. Where are we? I actually have no idea where we are. - We're not in L.A. anymore,
that's for sure. (laughs) - We're just taking the Jeep
out for a little day trip, but check out what I got in here. The brand-new DJI Mavic Mini. Look how small this thing is! Most of you have seen a Mavic, right? Nice and small, but
look at the difference. Just look. It's tiny! Now, before we get into this review, let me clarify one thing. This is not a replacement for this. The Mavic Pro does still
have plenty of advantages over the Mavic Mini, but this Mavic Mini is so
compact and nice and easy and relatively inexpensive so if you're looking to
get your first drone, this might be the one. We are losing the light here pretty quick but let me just try to
put it up in the air and see if we can get anything neat. (motor whirs) All right, here we go! So as of right now, it looks like we could
do 30 frames per second or 25 frames per second in 2.7k. I don't see 24 frames per second now. Maybe it'll come in a future update, but they made it very clear that this is not a professional drone. This is very much for someone trying to get into their first drone. But the way it flies is great. It feels really good. It's very responsive. If you're familiar with flying a Mavic, it feels very similar. It's great. So first impressions: it's
tiny, really, really small. And also, it's fun to fly. But anyways, we're about to lose the sun. We don't really know where we are. We've been kinda lost this whole time. So let's probably get out of here before we get eaten alive. - This is the start to
every scary movie I've seen. (Gene laughs) - All right, so we made
it out of there alive. Now we're back in L.A., and I just looked up a park where we're allowed to fly drones, so we're gonna try to
get a few more shots. I'm so under-prepared for this. This came up in the map as a park but this is a full-on hiking trail. (sighs) But this might actually
work out in our benefit. Some of the best spots to get drone shots are where you have
clearance on both sides. In every direction I look, I'm on top of everything. So hopefully that'll make
for some good drone shots. I need to rest. Hold on, give me a second. Now, this Mavic Mini comes in at 249 grams which keeps it barely under
the 250-gram weight limit. And depending on who you are, where you are, and your local regulations, this might be a huge deal to
have something under 250 grams, or it might not make much of a difference. But being this weight, it does definitely feel more like a toy opposed to a professional drone. Like if a Mavic Pro, worst case scenario, falls out of the sky
and hits me in the head, I'll go (groans). But this one on the other hand
will just bounce off my head, I'll be like, did you guys hear something? And just 'cause it's this weight doesn't mean you can just
take it to an airport and fly wherever you want. You still need to follow the rules which is why I still had to
drive all the way out here to let this thing fly 'cause I live pretty close to an airport. But in some places, it literally can make the difference between being able to fly a
drone and not being able to so this weight can be a big factor into which drone you choose. But keep in mind being this
small does have some trade-offs. Obviously, the camera
is not 4k, it's 2.7k. Also, these are not sensors. There's no sensors on the
front, back, or sides, only here on the bottom
which should give you a more stable flying, especially if you're
flying low or indoors. All right, so let's let it
take off and see how it does. It is a bit windy up here
so we'll see how it flies. And pretty good, no issues here. Let's get a few shots here and let's scout out this
location a little bit. Looks pretty cool. This is the nice part about
being at the top of a hill like I am right now is that I can circle around us without having to worry
about too much things to hit like power lines and all that. Now, some of the smart features we lose is stuff like active track where you can have it select
you and follow you around but we do still have some
smart shots like quick shot. Let's try out Droney real
quick and see how that looks. We'll just do a little
short one at 10 meters. All right, I have myself selected, click the start button, and I'm just gonna let it do its thing. What's up? Does it look awesome? Does it look epic? It's pretty windy so I
wouldn't be surprised if the footage came out kinda choppy. And that was a short one. It was only 10 meters
so it came right back. Let's try another one over here. Now, quick shots are awesome because you can get some
pretty awesome shots without putting too much
focus on the control. So if you're up here right now and you have to do a sponsorship
read, perfect example. So let's give this a shot. I'm gonna tap on myself and I'm
gonna set this to 35 meters, hit start, and here we go. Three, two, one. All right, let's go fly some more drones. What's up, man? - Sup.
- Hey, what elevation do you think we're at? - This is probably six or 7,000 feet. - I think we're up so high
that the air is very thin. And I just crashed the drone. - Just crashed the--
- (laughs) It just happened! - You just had it for like three minutes. - (laughs) Aw, let's go look for it. It just sank so fast. It started dropping and I just
full throttled up all the way and it just kept coming down
and coming down and here it is. Looks like we're okay for now, why it is nice to have
something like this Mavic Pro where it is gonna fly stronger and not gonna be affected by
wind and altitude as much. So we're gonna head back down and I'm gonna switch
to this, and let's go. So the way back, it was so much smoother
on that Mavic 2 Pro. So they're completely different machines. If you have a Mavic, you don't need to go and sell
it and get this Mavic Mini. There's definitely a lot of
benefits of having a Mavic Pro. So after we got off the mountain and came to a more reasonable elevation, we did a whole bunch more tests and we didn't have that issue anymore. So I'm definitely convinced that altitude had a big part in the drone
just dipping out of the sky. Anyways, one of the very
impressive specs about this is the battery life on this. And to help me test it, I have a very, very special
guest, Forrest Gump! - Hello. - You're supposed to say,
I just felt like running! - I just felt like running. - (laughs) That's actually pretty good, you practiced that? - Yes.
(Gene laughs) - You've got the hat. - The beard, the yellow, the-- - [Gene] Those socks! - [Forrest] The socks
make the whole outfit. - So here's the question: who can run longer, the
Mavic Mini or Forrest Gump? (upbeat funky music) ♪ Yeah ♪ ♪ Come on ♪ ♪ Let's go together ♪ (upbeat funky music) - I ran for a while, and I
think I'm just gonna go home. - (laughs) You only ran for 10 minutes! One thing that is really nice
is how small this drone is. I feel so much more comfortable
navigating through all this with that much smaller footprint. Now, even though the
camera is fully automatic, the image quality isn't bad. It's 2.7k resolution, you don't have access to stuff like delog and stuff like that. So it's obviously not gonna be as capable as its bigger brothers, but here, the performance
is definitely good enough and it's fun enough to
where I would recommend it. (laughs) Sam, you wanna try? (drone whirring) (Gene laughs) Drones are not a toy. Limbo! (groans) All right, so this
beeping officially started at 19 1/2 minutes. It's about 19% battery now. So we'll just see how long
we can keep it in the air until it just wants to
fall out of the sky. 23 minutes in, now we're at 4%. It's just trying to land and every time I force
it up, it'll go back up. Now, it's at 0% and I'm just forcing it to stay up in the air. We're at 24 1/2 minutes of
flight time now with recording so that's actually pretty impressive. What do you guys think is gonna happen when the battery's
completely just done for? Is it just gonna fall out or what? Oh, and this is a sponsored video, so if you want a chance to win this Mavic, I'm gonna give it to somebody. Oh, it just. (drone beeping) Oh, okay. So eventually, it's just like, okay, now I'm landing. (laughs) We made it to about 25
minutes on this one battery which is really impressive considering that we were
flying around a decent amount and we were recording 2.7k the whole time, so pretty good flight time. Oh, and as you guys know, this is a sponsored video
so there is a giveaway. We are giving away a Forrest Gump! I'm just kidding. We're just giving this away to someone in the notification squad so all you gotta do is drop a comment within the first 24 hours
of this video going live and you have a chance to win this. Good luck! I'd say the closest
thing to the Mavic Mini is the Mavic Air that Steve has. It's smaller but it's not
a crazy difference, huh? - [Man In Red Shirt] No, yeah. If you look from the side,
they're almost identical. - But the big difference I think here is probably the weight and price. So with the Mavic Air, you're gonna have a few advantages. One, you have sensors up front so that will help in some cases, especially if you lose video
transmission with the drone and it starts to fly back towards you, it'll be able to avoid trees
and buildings along the way. But also, you can shoot 120p
in full HD which is awesome. And also, 4k at 24 frames per second. So more professional camera settings. Now, we're gonna do a little race and see who can go faster. We're both in sport mode. And we're going into a headwind
for this one, so here we go. Oh, you got me beat, huh. I'm at 15 miles per hour right now. What are you at? - 31.
- Oh, you're at 31. You're going double the speed of me. So in terms of power,
you got me way, way beat. I must say I really love
the extended flight time of this Mavic Mini though. I'm still on my second battery and Steve's almost through his third. Dude, these propeller
guards are freaking dope. I was thinking like,
oh, I don't need those, I have enough experience not to crash. But when you put 'em on, you feel a lot more comfortable. These propeller guards
are actually awesome. Especially when you're learning or if you're planning on
flying really close to stuff, this is sweet. Since it doesn't have sensors, it's definitely very nice to have this. (drone whirring) Whoever wins this giveaway, I apologize for the
slightly damaged propellers, but this is too much fun right now. Especially for indoor
flying, this is dope. So overall, Mavic Mini, super, super fun, especially with these propeller guards. I kinda wish I put them on earlier. This propeller here kinda split, so I'm gonna have to switch that out. After all this has been through, the only time it takes any damage is when it has the propeller guards on. Luckily, the Fly More kit
comes with extra propellers. And yeah, you might notice
that this is a screw-on instead of the snap-on
that the other ones have. I prefer the snap-on ones but
it's really not a big deal because you don't really
need to take them off unless you crash into
something like I just did. So there you go, good as new. It's actually been through a
lot in this video, hasn't it? But still, it's hanging
in there just fine. Overall, would I recommend this? Absolutely. Yes, I did have a few issues
up in the mountains with it, but 7,300 feet, that's way up. That's like a mile and a
half almost up in the air. I'm sending the flight logs over to DJI so they can look into it and
if they respond with an answer, I'll let you guys know
down in the description. But for $399, I'm really, really impressed with what this thing is capable of. The way I see it, there's three drones that I
highly recommend right now. One is this Mavic Mini, and then a step above that is
the Mavic Air that Steve has, and then the Mavic 2 Pro
which is my primary drone. Each one, there's a big
step in terms of performance but also the price. Every time I fly this thing,
I have so much fun with it. And the Fly More combo
comes with three batteries and by the time you get through all three, you're pretty tired of flying
so that's a good thing. From this, if you wanted to take the step up to the Mavic Air, it's gonna give you a better top speed, it's gonna be faster, and probably not be an issue
at those super high elevations. In terms of the camera, instead of this 2.7k that
you have on the Mini, you're gonna go to a 4k camera with 30 frames per second
as well as 25 and 24. You can even get 120 frames
per second in full HD. But when it comes to
the wireless video feed, that transmission that you
receive here at your controller, I noticed that the Air
is better than the Mini. The Mini is fine, I think
it's plenty for basic use, but when you start pushing
the boundaries a little bit, we flew them both out to about 1,300 feet, what you're looking at
right now is actual footage from the image transmission that we are receiving with the Mavic Air and we were consistently
getting a very clear image that was very responsive, no lag. And then when we put that
next to the Mavic Mini all the way out at 1,300 feet, it was a pretty noticeable difference. Again, that's just really when you start pushing the
limits but for most basic use, I think the Mavic Mini's
signal is good enough. So still plenty of reasons to upgrade to the Air from the Mini. And then, of course, at
the top is the Mavic 2 Pro. Huge leap in price but also, you get that one-inch
sensor that's really clear. I love the way it flies, it's very robust, no issues at high elevations like we saw. And I've pushed that thing out super far and still never had an issue with the transmission or signal. So whatever video transmission that they put on the Mavic
2 Pro, that thing's magic. But yeah, if you decide
this Mavic Mini is for you, I think you'd be super happy with it. It's so much fun and maybe you
might be the giveaway winner. To be real though, statistically, there's a very slim chance of
you being the winner of this but hey, it might happen. You might be like Hunter over here who just won a Black Magic
Pocket Cinema camera, 4k from one of my previous videos. So congratulations, Hunter, and good luck to whoever wins this. And we'll just wrap this up by reading a few comments
from my last video which is all about trying to
take a small compact camera and making it look as
cinematic as possible. The Sigma FP, the smallest
full-frame camera in the world. Oh, that actually looks pretty cool. $1,900 for a full-frame camera. I might need to get my
hands on one of those. That could be cool. Christopher says, "Watching
Potato Jet while working. "Boss says, 'You're fired!'" You shouldn't be watching
YouTube while you work! That's irresponsible, but thank you. It's funny how my peak hours, my busiest times are always
during business hours when people are supposed to be working. I wonder why that is. Cine B-Roll says, "I never thought this
camera was so capable. "Also, please review the GoPro Max." Oh, the 360 camera? I ordered one and can't
wait for it to come in. Review coming soon. But anyways, I should
probably stop rambling. This is a long-ass video. How long have been we been watching? Oh my god, you've been
watching me for that long? Quickly, hide this window
and pull up a spreadsheet so your boss doesn't
know you're watching me! (smooth synth music) 