Hey, guys. It's Chelsea from
The Financial Diet. And if I sound a little
under the weather, it's because I'm just
getting over the flu, and it's also depression
in weather form outside. So you know, I'm perhaps a
little bit less energetic and I usually am. Anyway, this week,
we wanted to talk about all of the
little ways that you're probably wasting or losing
money without even realizing it. Whether it's the
things you don't do, the things you forget to do,
or the things you do too much, there are so many ways
that we cheat ourselves out of money that could
and should be ours. So let's jump right into
it with the six ways you're losing money
without even realizing it, and how to stop the bleeding. Number one is paying
sneaky bank fees. Something that many
people don't realize is that with any given bank
that you might be using, you are often paying money just
for the privilege of storing your money with that bank. Everything from having too low
of a balance to using checks to overdrafting to transferring
money can ping you with fees. And doing something like
overdrafting multiple times in a day, which is extremely
easy to do without even realizing it, can
lead you to rack up hundreds of dollars in
fees before you even realize what's happening. Erin just did a great show
on all the sneaky ways that banks might be
taking money from you, and we'll link you to
that in the description. But the point is, you need
to be aware of every dollar that you're spending
and being charged when it comes to your bank. Be on the lookout for fees, and
remember that you can always negotiate them. And even if you don't
get a given fee waived, like when you maybe
overdrafted before you realized your account
balance was low, it's always good to ask. There are also
modern digital banks that get rid of all
of the fees that make having a checking account
in particular so annoying. Chime is a great one that
you guys could check out. We'll link you to it below. No matter what banking
decision you make, though, remember that your
goal should always be to not pay money
just to store money. There's almost always a
better way to be banking. Number two is not thinking
in terms of opportunity cost. Opportunity cost is
an economics term, and it basically means
a benefit that a person could have received
but gave up to take another course of action. Stated differently,
an opportunity cost represents an alternative given
up when a decision is made. Often, the decision that
looks cheap on its surface can mean giving up
something very valuable that you could have had. For instance, if you save
money by not investing in a particular skill-- like paying for education,
software, online courses, et cetera-- you may be
effectively losing money by foregoing the employment
opportunities that could have opened up with that new skill. Another example is staying
in a lower paying job when it's become clear
that you're not going to get a promotion that
leads you to get what you're worth on the market. It can be the more comfortable
and low risk choice, but you're forgoing the
opportunity to make more money and learn something
new at a new job. If you think that you
might be underpaid, for example, you can look
on sites like Glassdoor or Salary.com to figure out
what is the appropriate amount that you really should be
earning at any given job. And if you've been waffling
about whether to take a specific course or even
potentially go to grad school, do detailed research on
what the average increase in salary from gaining those
skills or degrees tends to be. It's not perfect,
but it will give you a really good idea of what the
real opportunity cost there is. The point is, thinking not just
in terms of raw upfront cost, but in how any given
decision will benefit you in the longer term is crucial. You should always be thinking
in terms of your future self. But you should also be thinking
in terms of opportunities that may not seem immediately
available to you in the present moment. Unless you force
yourself to think outside of your current
limitations in things like your career, your finances,
or even your personal life, you're not likely
to advance very far in any of those fields. Number three is being
afraid of investing. One of the things we talk about
most frequently here on TFD is the importance of investing,
especially while you're young. Basically, there is a thing
called an investment horizon. And that's essentially
the amount of time that your money has
to grow and accrue all of that sweet,
sweet compound interest in the meantime. Young people often tend
to feel that they're exempt from investing,
because A, they might not have enough
money that they feel like they can get
started, and B, they always feel like they'll
just get to it later. But every day that you
wait to start investing, even just a few
dollars at a time, is costing you enormously in
how much time that money has to grow. Going back to
opportunity cost, we tend to think of investment as
always inherently super risky, and that keeping our money just
sitting in a savings account is by default the safe choice. But it's very much
not the safe option when it comes to that
money's potential value. Keeping your non-emergency
funds savings in a basic savings account is essentially
the only surefire way to make sure that it will
never really grow or work for you over time. And if you're looking for a
way to invest that's easy, low risk, and open
to any income, a great option to check
out is Wealthsimple. Wealthsimple is an
online investing service that you can start using
with literally just $1. And they'll build you
a custom portfolio to fit your personal
needs, goals, and timeline. Just answer a few
simple questions about your financial
goals, and they'll manage it for you on autopilot. Think of it like the
Roomba of investing. Just set it, forget
it, and let it go to work in the background. They even offer
retirement accounts like Roth IRAs that
have huge tax benefits. And saving for retirement should
be your first investment stop. You can invest up to your
first $5,000 with them with no management
fees whatsoever. Plus, TFD viewers get a special
cash bonus for getting started. Check them out at
wealthsimple.com/tfd or use the link in our description. And remember, you can get
started with literally just $1. So no excuses. Number four is not
using the right credit card for your life. Something a lot of
people don't understand is that using the
right credit card is about a lot more than
just building your credit and having access to funds
earlier in the month. Everything from points
to miles to cash back makes the right credit
card super useful for things that you would
otherwise be paying for totally out of pocket,
such as airline tickets. I'm someone who flies a
lot, so I almost exclusively use my Delta AmEx
SkyMiles card, which I run all of my
monthly bills through, so that I'm getting tons
and tons of miles racked up for money that I was
already spending. And while you do have
to be careful when it comes to airline cards-- i.e. some of them are
really limiting when it comes to things
like blackout dates-- if you learn to
use them properly, they can save you thousands
of dollars on airline tickets. But even if you're not
someone who flies a lot, there are tons of
great options out there for rewards cards for
whatever you might actually have a use for. We'll link you to
a great roundup in the description
for the best reward cards for different lifestyles. Just make sure to read the
fine print before you sign. And remember, if you don't yet
qualify for a really high value rewards card, you can
always get a more basic card and work your way up to it. It actually doesn't take
as long as you would think. A TFD members partner wanted the
Delta SkyMiles AmEx initially, but couldn't qualify for it. So he got a more
entry level card, and religiously built his
credit for about a year until he qualified for the
entry level SkyMiles card. And only a few years
later, he already has the Platinum 1, which
gives him the highest rewards. He flies a ton for his career,
so it's super useful to him and saves him a lot. Wherever you currently
are with your credit, remember that the healthiest
way to see credit cards is as a convenient way to
live the life you already want to live in a more cost
efficient and effective way. It's not just about
building your credit score. It's also about using them to
your advantage to save money. Number five is letting
things run continuously. Everything from lighting
to heating and AC to running the water while
you're brushing your teeth or taking super long showers-- of which I am guilty
on both counts-- is costing you
money for no reason. There's a reason that most
of our dads spend about half of their waking hours walking
around the house turning down thermostats and turning off
lights and mumbling about how, when you can pay
the bills you can keep the house as hot as you want. Well, guess what, you
literally do pay the bills now. And it's time to imitate
your dad in this respect. We all know that we should
be creating a low consumption and energy efficient household. But we'd probably be surprised
at how much not doing that can cost us in raw dollar amounts. It's literally for many
people in the hundreds of dollars a year. An easy way to get
over these bad habits and start approaching your home
life in a more measured way is to start setting month
long challenges for yourself. For one month, make
a conscious effort to only use exactly
what you need. That means no lights on in
rooms that you're not in, not running more water than
you need when doing things like brushing your
teeth, and it means keeping your heating and AC both
at a pretty mild temperature, and learning to put
on some damn socks. Sorry, that's my
dad talking again. And if you're in a
warmer month or climate, that means learning to use
as little AC as possible. I lived in a country
where AC is not really a thing for several
years, and it taught me that your brain adjusts
pretty quickly to the idea of, I'm just going to be kind of
hot when it's hot outside, and that's just
what life is like. I'm not saying you need to
get rid of AC altogether, but perhaps you could
learn to not keep things at a temperature where
ice cream stays solid when you leave it out on your desk. And do this month long energy
challenge with a buddy, so that you guys can hold
each other accountable, and see how low you can
get your bills down. A fun study showed that when
neighbors had their energy consumption listed
publicly, they actually consumed way less. When it comes to not
wasting on basic utilities, shame actually seems to be
the most effective thing. Number six is not
asking for a raise. Recently on the
three minute guide, Erin broke down how to ask
for more money at any job. And while I can't
do as thorough a job as she can with the topic,
because she's always been weirdly good at
negotiating and she has a lot more useful
tips than I do, I can say that it's an
incredibly important concept to reiterate. Every time you don't negotiate,
don't ask for a raise, or don't raise your rates
on any contracted work, you are actively cheating
yourself out of money. Negotiating isn't
just acceptable, it's what's expected out of
any professional in a work environment. It actually looks weirder
if you don't negotiate. And it's not just the low
opening salary or rate that hurts you when
you don't push back. It can be very damaging to get
in a pattern of low balling yourself, because it also
affects what you can ask for in your next position,
as well as the starting point from which you are
given raises for as long as you're at that employer. Thinking of negotiation
in concrete terms of how much money you are
losing by not doing it is a lot more effective
than thinking about it as some sort of like
abstract extra money that you're getting
on top of your salary. You're costing yourself
by keeping quiet. As always, guys, thank
you for watching, and don't forget to hit
the Subscribe button and to come back every
Tuesday and Thursday for new and awesome videos. Bye. 