- [Mark] Coyote, why so nervous? - Well, today I'm gonna
enter an enclosure with a serval, which is a
feisty little Savannah cat. And I'm gonna attempt to feet
it this bucket of chicken. It's either gonna end
really well or really badly. (cat hisses) The rolling grasslands
of South Africa visually define
this epic landscape and set the tone for a
series of epic adventures the Brave Wilderness crew
and I would embark upon. This is big country, and
with it comes big animals. In fact, the world's largest
land-dwelling animals can all be found here,
including African elephants, white rhinos, and hippos. Aside from these
massive herbivores, there are also a fair share
of stealthy carnivores. Sure, we all know lions,
leopards, and cheetahs. But what about the smaller,
more secretive felines? Today, the crew and
I are visiting the
Kariega Game Reserve. This
internationally-renowned site is set amongst 10,000 hectares of pristine African wilderness. And their conservation programs are some of the
best in the country. Currently, they are working
to reintroduce the serval, a medium-sized spotted wildcat that has become completely
extinct in the Eastern Cape due to habitat loss and hunting. I will be working alongside Jo. Considered the
mother of servals, she is one member of
a conservation team whose ultimate goal is
to successfully breed and reintroduce this
species to the reserve. Alright guys, so in this
bag, I have a dead bird that we found the other
day out in the field. What I'm gonna do is
enter this enclosure and attempt to feed
it to a serval. I have this pole here
and this bird here. I also have, and go
ahead, duck down, I also have a piece of
twine in my backpack. What I'm gonna do is build a
good old-fashioned cat toy. That's a dead bird, right there. Now, I'm gonna actually tie
the rope around its feet. Alright, so there you
go, bird on one end. Tie this twine to the snare pole. Okay, get that secured
on there like that. - [Mark] Now, you
said you were nervous. Is this a wild serval? - It's a serval that's
been raised in captivity, but you have to
keep in mind that this still is a
ferocious little animal. I would consider this the
bobcat of South Africa. They're a little bit
bigger than a bobcat, but they are completely
spring-loaded. So we've got the
bird set up on there. Now I'm gonna actually
position a GoPro on the stick as well so
we can get some epic shots of the serval jumping up,
trying to get the bird. Alright, I've got
a good shot there. Bird dangling from the stick and I think we are ready to
enter the serval's enclosure. Entering the enclosure
of an animal, especially an athletic
predator like the serval, is incredibly nerve-wracking. Therefore, it was important
that we stay quiet and calm, so that the cat could
acclimate to our presence. There they are, they're
starting to come out, getting ready to eat. Alright, Mario, go ahead and
zoom in there and get a shot. Wow, what a beautiful feline. - [Jo] That's the female. - [Coyote] That's the female. That's Sky, her name's Sky. - [Jo] That's Sky, yep. - [Coyote] That's
Sky, Phoenix is just in the background there. Look at that short
tail, short bobbed tail with rings around it,
and look at that coat. It's like a mix between
a leopard and an ocelot. Alright, well, it looks like
the servals are ready to play. So I'm gonna head
into the enclosure and see if we can get up close. - [Mark] Who's
growling, is that her? - [Jo] Yeah. - [Coyote] Hey, kitty! - [Jo] Yeah, just
go a touch closer. - [Coyote] Yep. - [Jo] She might
want to take that. - [Coyote] This way-- (serval hisses) - [Jo] Ooh, that's a nice one. - [Coyote] Ooh,
there's a grr, take it. Listen to that hissing sound. What a beautiful animal. Now real quick,
before we get into trying to tempt
it with the bird, take a look at the
anatomy of this cat. They're disproportionate
when it comes to front leg to back
leg, their back legs are actually bigger
than their front legs. They are completely
spring-loaded. What they will do is slowly
slink through the grasses and then as they
scare up a bird, they will leap into the
air and grab a hold of it with their hands, pull it down with their claws, and
then have a feast. (serval growls) - [Coyote] Oh, listen
to those sounds! Hi, kitty! Oh, yes, look at those teeth! Look at how big its ears are. They have an excellent
sense of hearing. Even the smallest
vibration in the grasses, they can pick up. That can be a little bird,
it could be a little mouse, even a lizard, and then
they creep in and pounce. As compared to their body size and other cats, they
have the largest ears of any feline out
there in the wild. That is so cool. I love the patterning in
the coat: stripes and spots. Helps them keep
perfectly camouflaged in between the light and
the shadows of tall grasses. This is a Savannah cat. You'll oftentimes find
them hunting by day, but based on what
sort of prey item they're going after, they
will also hunt at night. Excellent eyesight,
excellent sense of smell, excellent sense of hearing. Look at you. (serval hisses) Okay, now we've got
her interested in
the bird on a stick. This is how I play
with my cat at home. Actually, I don't have
a cat, but if I did, this is exactly what I would do. There's a bird! There's a bird. Get it. Ooh, pow, pow, pow! You got it! Pow! - [Jo] That's what they
would do with snakes as well. Hit it on the head, get
it confused, and then... - [Coyote] Oh! Got the bird. Just like that, got the bird. Ripped the legs right off of it. Look at that. That's okay. Those little legs will still
work as a good little treat. Let me see if I can crouch
in a little bit closer. Oh, she says no,
this is my bird. Okay, I'll stay right here. Look at that, feathers and all. Just scarfing that bird down. Ooh, its head fell off! You give me back that head. Oh, give me the head. Give me the head. Do you see how she's
whacking at the stick? That's exactly what
they'll do to their prey. Whap, whap, whap
with those paws. Look, there's still
some drumsticks. There's the drumsticks. You know, my good
friend Steve Kroschel taught me how to
talk to animals. Let's see if I can
call the serval in. Ready? (Coyote meows) (serval hisses) - [Coyote] Oh, here you go. Here you go. (serval hisses) Those were some epic shots. Holy cow, that was cool, okay. We put a little bit more bait
on the end of the string. Let's see if we can
go another round. - That's a feisty cat. - Okay, guys. I have the ultimate
cat toy right here. Check that out. That is chicken all
wound up with the twine. This one's not gonna be as easy
for her to get away from me, so hopefully we're gonna
get some more epic shots. Here we go. I am moving in to play a game of
cat and chicken. Hi, sweetie. There we go, let's see. (serval hisses) - [Coyote] Oh yeah, that one's
not as easy to get, is it? You're gonna have to
chomp on that one, huh? Oh, there you go. See if you wanna jump for it. Look, Sky. Now, if she's gonna kill a
snake, like a puff adder, this is exactly what
she would wanna do. Rip it up with her claws
so she would avoid a bite. Wow, it's amazing how she just pats at the chicken like that. She's just gonna chew
the chicken out from
around the twine. Oh, she's almost got it now. Got those claws
lashed in, you can see those retractable
claws coming out. Alright, give it
back, give it back. No, don't eat the whole thing! She is all claws into that. Oh there, I got it back. Yep, you got it all. That's it. Wow. Well how cool was that? Entering an enclosure and
getting to feed a serval. I'm Coyote Peterson. Be brave. Stay wild. We'll see you on
the next adventure. Okay, I'm gonna
back up real slow. Since 2012, the
Kariega Game Reserve and the Kariega Foundation have
been working to reintroduce servals to the wilds of
their conservation area. Upon the filming
of this episode, there were rumors that one
of the females was pregnant. And sure enough, just a
few days after our visit, a healthy litter of
kittens were born. These future Savannah stalkers
are currently growing strong. And in just a matter of
months, they will be released, ultimately defining
this conservation effort as an incredible success. Looking back on that
snarly feline face, I feel fortunate to have
been given the chance to get up close with
one of South Africa's most impressive cats. And I hope that this
litter of servals will flourish for
generations to come. Hey, Coyote Pack! I have some exciting news. I am proud to announce
that the crew and I are headed back on tour
with Brave Wilderness Live. Our next shows take
place in the Midwest. Tickets can be purchased at
the Brave Wilderness website, and these shows are
certain to sell out, so make sure that you
reserve your seats today. And don't forget, subscribe
so you can join me and the crew on our
next big adventure. I'm Coyote Peterson. Be brave! (audience cheers) (animal roars) 