Oh My Girl has returned after 8 months You guys waited a long time, right? Today is finally the day we have our comeback showcase for Nonstop *excited* I had fun watching Knowing Bros
(Oh My Girl was on Knowing Bros before the release of their album) My mom and friends were like, A lot of them contacted me that they laughed so much and that it was hilarious and was like, you're like this on TV too? (don't be mistaken, she's always like this) Hi~ Because of the current situation we've decided to do the best we can to present our work to Miracles (the showcase was online, but Arin hoping to connect with Miracles as much as possible) so please wait just a little longer <3 (found Jiho while she's waiting) The screen shows us too realistically
(Jiho's worried) is this screen what it would actually look like on air...? (Staff: it's okay since Jiho's going to shine) (Like this?) (Countdown for the press showcase) (Yooa blocked Mimi from the camera) (The time members have also been waiting for) (The press showcase begins with Nonstop) (Binnie explaining the album during the Q&A session) ...is compared to a board game it's a dance music with a fast tempo that I think a lot of people can enjoy together It would be great if you can pay attention to the lyrics while enjoying the song (Oh My Girl also performed Flower Tea and Dolphin) (press showcase has ended successfully) done! This is the 6th year's vibe
*I AM YOO SHI AH* I don't get nervous (Happy it ended successfully) It's 6:59pm
(the music has been released--checking the charts after a quick break) one minute left...! *Surprised* 5TH PLACE!!! Hyojung: 5th place?!?! (Happy sounds everywhere)
(Yooa: Wow Nonstop Oh My Girl 5th place!!!) (repeating the same words for the third time *excited*) I'm reading the comments now
(leader checking the response) Hyojung: Guys Dolphin 52nd place WOAHHHHHHH *ARIN IS HAPPY*
Hyojung: Flower Tea 67th place! (shocked by the continued list of songs that made it to the charts) Hyojung: NEON 76th place!!! Krystal 84th!
*all songs made it on the chart??* All of them!!! This is the first time all of our b-sides are on the charts While the members are happily checking the chart, Binnie is crying alone on the other side *trying to hold back tears* Staff: all tracks made it on the chart Thank you ㅠㅠ Yooa: HAHAHA Bae Yoobin is cryinggg *teases* everyone Bae Yoobin is crying~ AWWWWW (The unnies are trying to cheer her up by pretending to tease her) (or not...? maybe they're just enjoying it...) *singing Dolphin with changed lyrics
MIM-bora instead of Mul-bora* I made that for Mimi Jiho made it for me Follow me! *turns to check if the camera's following her* please give us a lot of hearts! and press like and stream (Arin's in her best mood) Keuries...
She cried lol What are you talking about?! WAHHH WHY ARE YOU FILMINGGG ...and this is how she cried
I don't remember I was so surprised cuz I took a nap after the press showcase (what Seunghee first saw when she woke up) Binnie was crying with a spoon on her legs (it's okay since they're happy tears ❤️) ugh I knew it I knew I would get teased... Everyone else is fine but Kim Jiho saw me It'll last forever As expected...☆ Hi, I'm Jiho, a friend of Binnie who was crying just now (Time to go meet Miracles) (Opening the showcase with The Fifth Season) (During the fan showcase, there was also a special talk session) Since I'm the maknae, I should take care of our unnies lol Thanks And during the stage for Nonstop came another special news Thank you for your performance of Nonstop It was a really amazing stage This is extremely touching, while you were performing the song was ranked 1st place on the charts (For the first time since their debut, they made 1st place on Melon) Jiho: Thank you!!!! what? us?? really? Yes, 1st place. I couldn't believe it so I looked at it myself (shocked by the unbelievable news) It's my first time hosting a showcase like this live and your song was ranked 1st place while you were on stage, and this is the premiere I was so surprised when you got 1st place Sunbaenim~~ Congratulations!! Thank youuu I know that Oh My Girl has progressed steadily and firmly truly, congratulations Jiho: I'm so thankful that something that is like a dream to us has become a reality and this was possible because of our Miracles They say that one follows one's name Thank you so much for gifting us with this miracle We will also gift you a miracle <3 I feel like, as Oh My Girl, we will be able to live happily Thank you! (Oh My Girl put in their best effort until the last performance) (Members coming down from the stage with bright expressions on their faces) We're done~! There's so much good news today Binnie's HYPED Thank you so much to our Miracles who tuned into our live showcase and so many staffs and producers who helped out today and all the reporters who wrote lovely articles for us Today will be an unforgettable day.
Arin: thank you~!!! We'll do our best this comeback! It's so hot Thank you for your hard work!!! Congratulations on 1st place~!
(staffs clapping in applause) Thank you! (members enjoying the moment as they exit) Seunghee: It's crazy! Thank you! Thank youuuu Jiho: wow we're really 1st place wahh we're first place! All first place! Lemme see lemme see! At last members get to check with their own eyes Seunghee: woah this, I really get to live this day? *Miracle❤️* It's so unbelievable, this stuff always hits me later I haven't seen it with my own eyes yet so I still can't believe it (Group photo for a memorable moment) 1st place~! Thank you for your hard work!
(the showcase has ended) Bonus clip: the real reason Binnie cried But our showcase...Keuries should have come (choking up again) Keuries aren't here... (cute even when she's crying) *trying to calm down* Thank you Keuries, really always, always I'm so sad we can't see each other (Binnie was sad Miracles couldn't be together on this long-awaited, happy day) Thank you Let's meet soon Thank you, I love you! Thank you, Miracles, for gifting Oh My Girl with this miracle 