I'm Dr. Lindsey Doe, clinical sexologist and host of this sex-curious show; Sexplanations. Let's go over words you might not know the meaning of: Like: So that it feels both like Vaginal & Oral Sex during a Blowjob A woman named Angel has a training video where she thoroughly demonstrates using Citrus as a sleeve; And someone added sound to it, uploaded it to Youtube, and it went viral One position or with certain strokes, objects, et cetera. Genital lock is different. That's when the penis of a dog enlarges inside the vagina of another dog, so that they are temporarily locked together. In sexuality, it isn't the number of casualties or deaths, it's the number of people a person has had sex with. For some, "body count" includes oral sex. For others, there is a separate "head count" to distinguish between the different types of sex White Males have traditionally dominated these spaces, so lots of individuals and organizations are working on initiatives to increase the diversity in these disciplines. ... who identifies as more masculine than feminine on a spectrum. A reminder: So your friend who was raised as a boy and lives as a woman is a Trans-Woman. Harisu is a Trans-Woman Althea Garrison is a Trans-Woman Chaz Bono is a Trans-Man, and so is Laith Ashley Binary meaning "two": in this case Male - Female. So N.B. (Enby) is someone who identifies as not male or female, or at least not consistently. There's a lot of other short hands like this: I highly recommend net-lingo's fairly comprehensive list of acronyms and abbreviations. We use them for efficiency and privacy, which is great: as a safer sex option, it helps with open communication but its risk:, for example, if you're a minor (also dating or hook up apps) Then let you swipe left if you're not interested, swipe up to "super-like" the person, or swipe right to like and potentially match. SESTA! FOSTA! This needs a much longer explanation, but in short: (A Senate Bill) A bill passed by the House of Representatives. They're supposed to help end rape slavery (yay!). BUT! The way they're written, actually threatens and eliminates freedom of speech online, especially around sexuality, like sex ed, sex work, sex in the arts, pornography, etc. Though there are still word combinations for polyamory that use just the prefix Poly You, your lovers, your lover's lovers, AKA: For example; Adria, a character in the Show Contra-Points explains that the mouthfeel of a male penis is different form the mouthfeel of a feminine penis "it doesn't get as hard, it doesn't really ejaculate, and it has a different mouthfeel" "Why is nobody talking about the mouthfeel?" Think of them like gyms; there is a protocol, you can get a membership, or a one time pass, sometimes there is a fee, you can workout alone, lift with a buddy, have a group workout, or just watch others sweat. Everybody does their thing and then they wipe off the equipment to keep it clean. Also used as a slur. ("Likes" and "Followers") In Relationship Dynamics If you go back and forth between the two, you might call yourself a Switch. And that wraps up 30+ words you officially know. There will always be more to learn! 