“Sometimes we go to extremes
where our children are concerned.” To be a mother is to
bring life into the world – but on Game of Thrones, it’s just as much
an experience of death. “She was mine,
and you took her from me.” Having children kills
so many mothers in the story, just as used to be
the norm throughout history. “Back when you ripped
my mother open on your way out of her
and she bled to death?” And if they do survive childbirth…. “What comes after is even harder.” So in this cruel world,
what are the best practices of motherhood? The three central mothers on the show – Cersei Lannister, Catelyn Stark,
and Daenerys Targaryen – illustrate how their respective houses’
Lion, Wolf, or Dragon philosophy can be applied to mothering. Cersei raises her kids to believe
that they are superior lions, removed from the riff-raff of society. Catelyn teaches her children
to love each other faithfully as a wolf pack. And Daenerys uses her dragons
and followers for conquest, showing us how a mother is
first and foremost a leader. So here’s our take on how,
in the Game of Thrones world and in ours, the values a mother passes down
to her children define the future. “Her love for you is more real
than anything else in this world.” to click the link in the description below. When you think of Cersei,
the first words that come to mind might be cold, ruthless, self-centered. But she is also one of the most
loving characters on the show, at least, when it comes to her kids. “You love your children. It's your one redeeming quality. That, and your cheekbones.” She epitomizes a mother’s
bottomless, unconditional love, “I used to spend hours looking at him. His wisps of hair. His tiny little hands and feet.” in all its intense ferocity. “I will burn the cities to the ground
if they touch her.” Unfortunately, the lesson she teaches
about parenthood is that love alone does not make you a good mother. “You never love anything in the world
the way you love your first child. Doesn't matter what they do.” Cersei raises her children to believe
they are golden lions, better than everyone else,
with a special destiny. "They will all come to you, little lion,
to rest a crown upon your head.” She inherits this belief
in the Lannisters’ superiority from her father Tywin, “A lion doesn’t concern himself
with the opinions of a sheep.” so we can see how foundational
parenting philosophies get passed down from
generation to generation. “Year and years of lectures
on family and philosophy.” As William Blake put it: “One law for the lion and ox is oppression.” -- and Cersei teaches her kids that Lannister lions shouldn’t
feel themselves restrained by the same rules that
apply to lesser beings. “For one day,
all the beasts will bow to you’.’” We see the results of imparting this
over-the-top sense of entitlement in Joffrey, “You are my darling boy and the world
will be exactly as you want it to be.” demonstrating that
truly unconditional love, absent any discipline,
can be bad for a child. “He doesn't listen to me.” “It's hard to put a leash on a dog
once you've put a crown on its head.” And her total indulgence leads to
her child’s failing to respect her as well. “My mother's always had
a penchant for drama. Facts become less and less important
to her as she grows older.” Cersei’s other two children,
Myrcella and Tommen, are sweet and well-behaved. “Tommen and Myrcella are good,
decent children, both of them.” But the way her excessive love
ruins them is by keeping them
too innocent and sheltered. Her insular parenting style makes them overly trusting and
susceptible to manipulation, they don’t see threats coming in this world
of schemers and backstabbers, and they aren’t resilient enough
to endure serious hardship. As strategic and devious
as Cersei herself is, she hasn’t passed on these
survival skills to her children, rendering them incapable of making it
in the Seven Kingdoms. After Tommen becomes king,
Cersei manipulates, sidelines and lies to him, clearly thinking of herself
as the real monarch, “I am the Queen!” Instead of teaching him
to be a strong ruler, she makes him feel
small and inadequate. “If I can’t even protect my wife
and my own mother what good am I?” The irony is that Cersei is desperately trying
to keep her children safe and escape Maggy the Frog’s prophecy. “Gold will be their crowns. Gold their shrouds.” But Cersei’s mistake is thinking
she can protect them, “It's so wonderful to
have her watching over you. A lioness guarding her cub.” instead of empowering them
to protect themselves. “Your Grace, the queen has sent me
to bring you back to the Red Keep.” Meanwhile, because Cersei believes a mother
should care only about her children, “Love no one but your children.” through her we see the danger in making your kids
the center of your world. “If it weren't for my children
I’d have thrown myself from highest window of the Red Keep. They’re the reason I’m alive.” Kids inevitably grow up
and need to make lives without their mother
at the center of them. But overbearing Cersei
is a perfect guide to what not to do
when you become a mother-in-law. Look at this shot of Cersei and Tommen
at Margery’s wedding – she’s in between them, refusing to let anyone
be closer to Tommen than her. Threatened by her son’s happiness, “Exhausted, to be honest,
but what could I expect, he is half-lion half-stag.” she arms the high sparrow
in order to lock up his bride. “My son needs me now more than ever.” “Get out, you hateful b**ch.” She succeeds in destroying
her daughter-in-law, but this brings about
great suffering for herself, and ultimately costs her her son. Cersei’s excessive love for her kids
is an extension of her narcissism. “Have you ever known your mother
to like anyone aside from her children?” These children conceived
through twin-cest are quite literally
a product of Lannister self-love. Cersei’s motherly love
is actually quite selfish and self-serving a lot of the time. She feels her children belong to her. “No one can take that away from me,
not even Joffrey, how it feels to have someone. Someone of your own.” She puts her control over her children
before their own good. “I didn’t want to come here
but she told me to, I did what she said,
I did my duty, and now she’s forcing me to go back?” Moreover, she demonstrates that
how we act toward ourselves inevitably shapes the way
we act toward our children and the messages
we unthinkingly send them. Just as she does for herself, Cersei refuses to check
her children’s worst impulses, defensively fends off any criticism,
and tries to shut them off from anyone outside of immediate family. “Everyone who isn’t us is an enemy.” Thus to be a good mother it’s important
to be conscious of the example you set, because any parent is first
and foremost a role model. Catelyn shows us what
a mother of wolves looks like. More than anything,
she instills in her little wolves a devotion to family. “I’m defending our family. So is she.” And long after she’s gone,
we see the results of her parenting embodied in the Stark kids’
loyalty to their pack. “Family, duty, honor.” “Those are Tully words,
your mother’s.” Catelyn herself is born into House Tully
which makes her a fish, but over the years she grows
into a true mother wolf. “Bind him with every chain you can find.” “You’ve become a real
she-wolf in your later years, there’s not much fish left in you.” In the Stark’s early years,
Catelyn imparts a positive model for a stable home life through
her strong marriage to Ned. “Love didn't just happen to us. We built it slowly over the years,
stone by stone.” She molds her young into mature,
capable, independent people through supportive but grounded attention. And she balances giving them
a carefree childhood, “Ten is too young to see such things.” with passing down
her knowledge of the realities of the world when her kids come of age. “I don't trust Lord Greyjoy
because he is not trustworthy.” Robb values his mother
as an intelligent advisor, while Catelyn generally
respects that her son is the King in the north and her role
is to counsel rather than control him. This is a striking contrast
to how Cersei shelters, disempowers and lies to
her sons on the throne. In season six Jaime compares
Catelyn to Cersei, “She loved her children. I suppose all mothers do,
but Catelyn and Cersei, there's a fierceness you don't often see. But the difference between the two is that
Catelyn has shaped her children into resilient, resourceful individuals, giving them the tools
they need to go on without her. “I’m your brother. I have to protect you.” “Right now I have to protect you.” She makes mistakes, “This horror that’s come to my family, it’s all because I couldn’t
love a motherless child.” yet for the most part,
she gives her children the right advice, “I want you to promise me,
no more climbing.” even if they don’t always listen. “…and I ignored your advice. Now Winterfell is burnt to the ground,
the North is overrun with ironborn, and Bran and Rickon are gone.” The tragedy that befalls
Catelyn and her children, in spite of all she does right, illustrates a difficult truth: that a mother can’t always
protect her children from a dangerous world. “I wonder how many times did Bran or Rickon
stare across the moors of Winterfell waiting for me to return. I will never see them again.” Still, most of her wolves prove strong enough
to endure enormous hardship, unlike Cersei’s coddled lions. So Catelyn illustrates
that the proof is in the pudding – the ultimate test of
a mother is how well she prepares her children
to survive and thrive when she can no longer
be with them. Daenerys the Mother of Dragons
embodies the idea of the mother as a leader. Her dragon’s style of parenting involves
setting an example of strength and inspiring her children
to become strong themselves. In our culture, the identities
of mom and career woman are so often framed as conflicting, but in Daenerys the leader
takes the form of the mother archetype. She shows what it is to be
a mother to a people, to embolden them with
a greater vision of tomorrow. As Daenerys begins liberating slaves,
she goes from being khaleesi to ‘mhysa’. [shouting] “It means ‘mother’.” And like Catelyn, she empowers
her symbolic children to find their own purpose and strength, instead of encouraging them
to be dependent on her. [speaking Valyrian] The success that this strategy
brings Daenerys in her quest for the throne shows that healthy mothering
and inspirational leadership share many of the same principles. [speaking Dothraki] Meanwhile, after losing
her baby in season one, Daenerys believes she can’t
bear human children. “The dragons are my children. And they are the only children
I will ever have.” Instead she has three
offspring who are both exceptional and freakish
in the world’s eyes. “But a good mother never
gives up on her children.” Yet while her children are more
unconventional than Cersei’s, “They call you the Mother of Dragons.” her mothering is far more enlightened. As the dragons grow from
babies to rebellious teenagers, her parenting tactics evolve
along with her children’s needs. In season four she chains up
Viserion and Rhaegal after learning that Drogon killed a young
girl. “He came from the sky and…” So like Cersei, we see her becoming afraid
of her children’s unchecked power. “I can’t control them anymore.” But unlike Cersei,
Daenerys doesn’t want to be responsible for her children hurting anyone. “I don't want another child's bones
dropped at my feet.” Similar to how Cersei’s children
are extensions of herself, Dany’s dragons are symbols
of her own inner strength. “When your dragons were born,
our magic was born again. It is strongest in their presence. And they are strongest in yours.” Her maturity when she chains them up
shows one of her best qualities – her understanding that great power
needs checks and balances. “She chose an advisor that would
check her worst impulses instead of feeding them.” Yet, when provoked,
the mother dragon in her comes out, breathing fire, with potential
to do major harm to the world. So these children embody
her best and worst qualities – her incredible ability
and tyrannical ruthlessness – just as children will inevitably inherit some of their parents’
strengths and weaknesses. Intriguingly, as mother to both
her followers and her dragons, Daenerys is not selfless and sacrificing like the other mothers we see. “Take me for a hostage,
but let Robb go.” It’s her followers who offer up
their lives for her. “Do I have a champion?” [speaking Valyrian] While Cersei’s indulgent spoiling
and sheltering of her children, catering to their every whim,
might remind us more of modern parenting, Dany is a more stern, old-school mother who demands service and
obedience from her children. “Bend the knee and join me. Together we will leave the world
a better place than we found it.” And often, this does her kids good. .
So as the dragon mother, Daenerys illustrates many lessons of how to motivate and shape people,
whether they’re your literal children or not – “He’ll be able to feed
himself from now on.” while also showing that,
the mightier a mother is, the more important it becomes for her
to periodically check her instincts and heed the advice of moderate advisors. “They’re dragons Khaleesi. They can never be tamed. Not even by their mother.” Before we finish up,
we want to devote a little time to the lessons we learn
from the other mothers on Game of Thrones. Catelyn’s sister, Lysa Arryn, is a cautionary
tale of the overprotective mother. Her desire to keep her son Robin safe
is natural in this dangerous world, “If you fear for the safety of your son--” “Of course I fear for the safety of my son!” but her excessive attachment
infantilizes and stunts him. Selyse Baratheon embodies
the opposite danger – not loving your child for who they are. “I should have given you a son.” “Not your fault.” “Whose, then? I gave you nothing but weakness. And deformity.” Thus she shows the perils of clinging
to a fixed idea in your head of what your child should be. Gilly is a model of resilience
and improvisation as a mother. She gets her baby out of a bad,
seemingly hopeless situation and gives him
a far better life than she had, “I want to save my baby’s life,
can you do that?” reminding us that a parent needs to adapt. Olenna Tyrell embodies a grandmother’s
total acceptance of her progeny, she’ll do whatever it takes
to protect her young roses. “You don't think I'd let you
marry that beast, do you?” Even more importantly, she adds humor
and happiness to their lives – reminding us that
a special mother balances practical concerns
with a sense of levity. “As for your fathead father…” “Grandmother, what will
Sansa think of us?” “She might think we have
some wits about us.” Finally, Ellaria Sand reminds us that
a parent’s choices out in the world inevitably come back
to be felt by her children. If you hurt someone else’s child
it will put your kid in danger. “Your daughter will die
here in this cell, and you will be here
watching when she does.” One key similarity between
Catelyn, Cersei, and Daenerys is that they all lose their
mothers at a young age. “My own mother died
on the birthing bed.” All these women are
figuring out how to mother without having had
a true role model. So many of our other
central characters, too, are motherless children, which may explain a lot of
the pain and brutality we witness in this society. The Mother is one of the seven figures
in the Faith of the Seven, and according to the books, quote, “The Mother could be
fiercer than the Warrior when her children were in danger.” “How did men and women first come
to feel the Mother's presence? It was through their own mothers.” While they don’t always get it right, the strong moms battling
unthinkable dangers channel a love and fortitude
that are out of this world. “You have courage. Not battle courage, perhaps, but,
I don't know, a woman's kind of courage.” So if there’s one key feeling
the Game of Thrones moms leave us with, it’s awe. “The love she had for her children,
I was a little awed by it.” You don’t want to miss this deal
so check it out today. 