- [Sven] This video is brought
to you by Soundstripe. Get three royalty free music tracks by clicking the link in
the video description. So today we're gonna talk about three ways to get your edit to feel right. I'm excited about this
episode because I think today we might go a little
closer to that Enigma that is editing. How can you tell good editing? Am I right? - [Karen] Absolutely right. You don't go to a movie to see continuity. What's the editor doing
besides keeping continuity? How are they making the actual edits have some kind of emotional
response from an audience? (dramatic music) Rhythm and Film Editing is
time, energy and movement shaped by timing, pacing
and trajectory phrasing for the purpose of creating
cycles of tension and release. Some wonderful scholars
and colleagues of mine in the Netherlands, wrote an article called Seeing Yourself in the Past, in which they say, "Viewers are able to infer the meanings "from the cinematic form, "because they embody the
knowledge that filmmakers "used to impose those
meanings artistically." So what they're saying is, the meaning making is grounded
in your bodily knowledge, like what you know, as a living being functioning in this world. - [Sven] So it's almost
like when you see a movie, you can't quite hear the dialogue, but you still follow what's going on. - [Karen] Right. (upbeat music) When we see performances on screen, we can connect to what
their movement means because we know what
that movement feels like in our own bodies. But what an editor is doing
is actually directing our eye to the movement that's holding
the really important meaning. This is one thing that continuity
editing is designed to do. For his article Attentional
Theory of Cinematic Continuity, Tim J. Smith did eye tracking experiments. And then he made heat maps
to show where eyes are moving as they watched film. From these experiments, Tim
found that what feels right in continuity editing is a smooth attentional shift across cuts. But I'm suggesting that
while smooth cuts are fine and good to make, editors might sacrifice perfect smoothness to do something more. Tim Smith looking at
the scene and he says, there's something weird going on here. There's one cut that
doesn't work in the way that I'm theorizing that it works. For whatever reason that
owl looks over Decker's head and accuse your eyes to
slip over Decker's head and then you slip them back. - [Sven] I see. - [Karen] And we're
talking milliseconds right? Not at a conscious level. If you look at the
other shots in the scene your eyes go directly to
the other characters eyes. A cut can do more than
preserve continuity. And if it can, it will. If artistry of another order is available, this kind of slight
mismatch in the in the gazes of the two characters, the owl and Decker, it's not accidental. - [Sven] Maybe this is intentional
because something happened that disrupts the stability of the scene. - [Karen] Exactly. I reckon this cut disrupts
this rule of smooth attention, but it feels right for three reasons. It creates a movement phrase, it's like a statement
of a rhythmical idea. So you see that owl moves right left, Decker moves right left. It engages us in its
rhythm at a bodily level. It adds a rhythmic
quality to the narrative to the storytelling. I would also say it does something else that's really important, it
creates kinesthetic empathy, it creates empathy in the viewers body with Decker own kind of
uneasiness in the space. (suspense music) The last thing it does
is it a create subtext when you make that rhythmic
phrase one two, one two. Essentially this cut is saying, Decker and the owl alike. In the next line Rachel says, "Do you like our owl?" Decker asks, "Is the owl artificial?" - Of course it is. - [Karen] Decker might also be artificial, because they move alike in this way. So, the cut creates a thought
it creates a movement phrase that makes us think and feel just through the rhythm of the movement. - [Sven] The reward is on the audience because they kind of have
a hunch at that point. They suspect something. - What kind of movie is this? - [Karen] In a hunch
it's the right feeling for that moment, and it
was created by the editors. - It seems you feel our work
is not a benefit to the public. - [Karen] Here's another theory. Why something feels right to an editor. what feels right is the movement that triggers embodied simulation
response Vittorio Gallese, the Italian neuroscientist has
articulated as being this way that our bodies will respond
to movement by mirroring it. And that's how we know what it means. That's how we can empathize with movement. And that's how we know how
things feel to other people. (audience screaming) - I think I will never go to shower again. (dramatic music) - [Sven] I was at South by
Southwest saw the film that I cut, and I sat deliberately with the audience. The great thing is I can pick up the energy of the room that way. It's not so much really observing them, it's like just picking it
up what I imagined it is with birds flying in synchrony. They just feel where they are. And they make these slight adjustments. After seeing it three times
with three different audiences, I could really pinpoint
specific moments in the film where I'm like, we're taking too much time to explain something that's cut that. I had this opportunity to
just open up the movie again, and just make those slight adjustments for what I think is gonna
be a better experience. (laughs loudly) - [Karen] Fantastic example of
putting theory into practice, you watch your film with
other people in the room, and you use your sense
of embodied simulation to improve your cuts. - It's getting down. - [Karen] What Gallese is trying to get at is before sharing the
experiences of the characters. The viewer shares the
experiences of the camera. (dramatic music) Gallese makes an example
of this fantastic scene from the film Notorious in Hitchcock film, we think she's moving towards the keys. And then it turns out, it's
actually just the camera moving towards the keys
and she's still stuck back in the doorframe, wondering
whether to move or not. Just before that important camera move, the last few frames of that shot of Alicia are slightly out of focus. And you can tell by the fact that it's out of focus that neither Hitchcock nor the camera operator really
expected her to do that. And what the editor whose
name is Theron Warth has done is he's prioritized movement
phrasing, over perfect focus. He's making us feel with Alicia, and that camera movement is more important than keeping the shot. - [Sven] The other thing that I noticed is that she moves forward and stops. And then the camera that is in a stop position starts moving. So it's really not one
continuous movement. It's really two waves. - [Karen] It's a movement
phrase, it has a rhythm and you can kind of imagine it is a breath rhythm or something, it's like she going uh! and then the cameras going uh! And there's that little
stutter between them. That is how our body
feels in response to her like terribly anxious state. That's a trajectory phrase that makes us feel with the character. The editors and expressive artists and shaping this movement, and they're using their own body to make something feel right. (upbeat music) - [Sven] That's the cool
thing about this is these are the thousand little decisions that you do as an editor on your own time when you start telling that story. - [Karen] This brings
me to my third example, which this amazing editor, Sven Pape who has what I'm
calling kinesthetic imagination. - [SVen] Oh, let's do it. What is that? - [Karen] Kinesthetic
imagination is this capacity to kind of imagine movement feeling. It's strength like a muscle
through lots of practice. And through respecting that question. Does it feel right? And getting in there and
making it feel right. Your episode, which is the
upside of procrastination, this crazy good editor Sven Pape shows us like 17 possible
shots he could use to make the sequence. If he used all those 17 shots, he could make something
that has perfect continuity. - It's basically Mark waking
up and he's sneaking out so his brother still sleeping. He's also checking on his mom. Then he writes a note, takes a push pin comes down the stairs,
what's the note on the wall. The note says, "I love you keep going". And then he disappears. - [Karen] Then you go away and you're letting them play around in your imagination as
possible combinations and you're kind of
imagining movement flows. And when you come back to it the next day You just have three shots. (gentle music) It's poetry. - [Sven] So we've seen
these three examples. What's the take home from this? - [Karen] An editor may use
time, space and movement in any number of creative
ways to generate physically, emotionally and narratively
expressive sequences. So I wanna ask you, the audience, what do you think is the most
important part of editing that makes it feel right? Now, there's a really cool deep dive on the eye tracking
experiments by Tim J. Smith. I'm gonna show you a
sneak peek in a second. - But there's something
else going on here as well. It's not motion in isolation. Now, Tim J. Smith and Dr. Karen Pearlman both gave talks about how cuts of work and by the way Karen
wrote an academic paper that includes some early
videos from this channel. If you want to get a free
download of this publication, consider becoming a patron
and you'll get free access. That's a 20 bucks value, plus all the other goodies
patron members get to enjoy. Now here's a glimpse of
Tim's presentation plus links to both of their talks. Happy editing. - So this is a demonstration
from There Will Be Blood that I did a few years ago, where we can look at the gays
behavior and how it switches with the social interaction of the characters in the sequence. So when Paul looks down
and touches the map, your gaze will go down
and follow his interest. If the dialogue switches
between Daniel and Paul, your gaze goes with it to switches to Paul and then switches to
Daniel son H.W over here. We also cue gaze by one person
looking at another character or by suddenly moving their hands. Certain social changes like
that will draw attention to it and it does it pretty
universally across the viewers. This can be used in the edit, because you can anticipate when
and where gaze is gonna go. So you can create a shift in attention that you can then use to
guide attention to a new shot. (upbeat music) 