hey, welcome to 12tone! so, I've been doing
song analysis videos for a long time, talking about the composition and theory of a lot
of the biggest songs in rock history, and in that time I've learned a lot about how
to do analysis, so last week I decided it'd be a good idea to take what I've learned and
go back and apply it to some of those early videos, to correct the mistakes and take a
closer look at things I may have missed the first time around. last week we covered the first two videos,
Hallelujah and Stairway to Heaven, so this time I thought we'd kick off with the third
song in the series, Sweet Child o' Mine. let's go. (tick, tick, tick, tick, tock) actually, let's start with something I wasn't
wrong about: the key. in that video, I said the song was in Db, and I got a lot of people,
especially guitarists, who argued that this was incorrect. you see, when recording the song, Guns N'
Roses tuned their instruments down a half-step, which meant that instead of the weird, difficult
key of Db, they were playing it on the frets of a relatively simple key, D. which is true,
and most transcriptions out there will notate it in D, but here's the thing: which frets
their fingers were on doesn't really matter to anyone but the people playing it. you, as a listener, can't tell, and since
I'm a music theorist, not a guitar instructor, for my purposes, calling it Db is correct. but this video isn't called What I Got Right
About Sweet Child O' Mine, so let's get to the mistakes. one thing I'm noticing as I go back to these
old videos is that I didn't tend to talk about transitions much: I was looking at main sections
like verses, choruses, and whatnot, but if there was an interlude connecting them it
often got left out. like, in Sweet Child, after the chorus, we
get this: (bang) and I didn't even mention it, so let's do it now. first off, the chords are the same as the
verse: we've got I, down to bVII, to IV, and back to I. this establishes the song's primary
scale, mixolydian, which is like major except that the 7th degree has been lowered, making
the scale feel less internally stable, and it also repeats a theme we see over and over
in the piece: plagal cadences, where the IV chord resolves directly to the I without passing
through something like the V chord first. these are weaker resolutions, which helps
keep the momentum of the song going so we never get too strong a sense of rest. but all that was covered in the original video:
what's different here is the guitar riff. you see, one of the most interesting parts
of this song to me is the intro, where Slash plays the same riff over and over while rhythm
guitarist Izzy Stradlin plays different chords underneath it, constantly recontextualizing
the notes Slash is playing, and we get the same thing here as well. we start with this (bang) where we hang on
Gb over a Db major. this is the 4th, and it rubs against the F
in the chord, creating a bunch of dissonance until it resolves down at the end of the bar. next we get this (bang) where that same Gb
is suddenly the 5th in Cb major, making it sound much more stable. this time, instead of resolving down a half-step
to F, it jumps to Eb, the 3rd of the chord, to further emphasize that stability, and finally
we land on a Gb chord, where it becomes the root and just sits still for most of the bar
until we get this walk-up (bang) based on the notes of the Gb major pentatonic scale,
which is just all the notes that fit cleanly over a Gb major chord. interestingly, we hang on this high Eb, the
6th of the chord, which is probably the least stable note in the pentatonic scale, which
gives us some urgency without really stepping outside of traditionally consonant bounds. from there we go back to the Db chord and
the riff lands on a F, which is a chord tone, but it's not the root, because we're about
to launch back into the verse so we don't want to lose all our forward momentum. the next thing I want to look at are the solos.
one thing I didn't really spend enough time on last time is the fact that the solos are
actually a whole new section. this isn't unheard of, but it's pretty common
for rock solos to just be over a progression from earlier in the song, like the verse or
chorus: this is kind of a hold-over from blues and jazz traditions, and it serves to direct
the audience's attention where it matters most: the soloist. if the harmony is familiar,
you don't have to dedicate as many mental resources to processing it. if it's not, though, you get a different effect:
the soloist becomes more like a guide, leading you through the new harmonic landscape. this is especially noticeable in Sweet Child
because not only is this a new section, it's a new key: as the solo starts, the song switches
from Db mixolydian to Eb minor. or, at least it sort of switches: these two
scales have what's called a relative relationship, which means they share all the same notes,
they just use them differently, so once again we're taking the same sounds and recontextualizing
them over a new harmony, just at a deeper level this time. speaking of which, let's talk about that harmony. right before the solo, we get this (bang)
where we hammer on the old root, Db, for a bit and then, right before the transition,
step up to D, giving us a clean walk up to the new root, Eb. this makes it a little clearer
that a transition is happening: Eb on its own might just sound like the II chord, but
the D in the middle tells us there's something more going on. from there, the solo breaks up into two parts:
the first section has a four-chord loop of I, bVI, V, and IV, and in the original video
I compared this to the doo-wop changes (bang) but in minor with the last two chords flipped. honestly, though, I think there's a better
famous progression to compare this to: the Andalusian Cadence. (bang) this is a walk down the minor scale
from I to V, and there's a pretty common variation of it where you remove the bVII (bang) which
gives us the first three chords of the solo. the only difference is they add in the IV
chord, because the traditional Andalusian Cadence ends with a big V-I resolution, whereas
this song prefers to go IV-I. the other section sounds like this: (bang)
and I described that as a walk up the minor scale, which yeah, it is, but I wanna take
a closer look at this last bar: (bang) we've got Cb, Db, and Gb, which are the IV, V, and
I in Gb major. it's the big, strong resolution we've been
looking for all song, but sadly it's an illusion: Gb is the relative major of Eb minor, which
again means it's got all the same notes, but the way those notes are used in the rest of
the section imply a minor key center, so we only get one beat of resolution before falling
back to our actual root. this is especially fun 'cause they play the same progression
under the "where do we go now?" bit at the end, which the harmony emphasizes
by occasionally taking a wrong turn and getting lost. anyway those are the main things I wanted
to correct, but before we move on I have a story to tell. you see, for a long time I was operating on
youtube without any copyright claims, and rightly so: I take great pains to ensure that
my work is fair use. but I knew that wouldn't last forever, and
eventually, Warner Chapel found this video and issued a claim. now, for those of you who haven't had to deal
with it, youtube's copyright system allows for three appeals. the first is just a polite "are you sure?"
which they always reject. the second is more forceful: it says "issue
a takedown notice or back off", and once I did that one, I woke up to an email telling
me my video had been taken down. not by Warner Chapel, mind you. they know better. no, this takedown notice had come from another
rights-holder: Guns N' Roses Music themselves. still, I knew my work was fair use, so I went
to the third and final appeal, which says "take me to court or back off" and a couple
days later I got an email that… ok, I'm just gonna have to read this word-for-word
so you know I'm not making it up: *ahem* "Dear Mr. Arnold: We are co-counsel
for Guns N’ Roses and received the below notification from YouTube. We attempted to look at the link but it has
been taken down. Our office has not had a chance to watch the
infringing video so if you do want to pursue this can you please send us a link for our
review before we embark on what could be costly and potentially unnecessary litigation. Your prompt attention to this email would
be greatly appreciated." I'm gonna give that a moment to sink in, because
in case you missed it, this is a blatant admission of negligence from their own lawyers. I responded explaining that no, I couldn't
send them a link because their client had already had the video taken down, and I asked
why they'd do that without checking with their lawyers first to make sure they had a case,
which they're legally required to do. sadly, I forgot to include that their prompt
attention would be appreciated, so they never got back to me and a couple weeks later the
claim expired. since then, every time Warner Chapel has claimed
my work, it's been released pretty immediately on appeal, so I think they might be scared
of me now. anyway, the next song we looked at was The
Beatles' Blackbird, and considering that song is only two minutes long I don't really have
a lot to add. that said, I did skip a transition. after a couple times through the form, the
guitar hangs on a high G chord for a bit, slowing down and gently fading until all we're
left with is some recorded birdsong. then we hear this (bang) which is a brand
new progression for the song. sort of. it's actually two other parts smashed together:
we've got these three chords, which are borrowed from the start of the verse, and then these
four chords, which come from the end, which means this whole thing is like a pair of harmonic
bookends, summing up the whole verse in two bars while skipping the more elaborate bits
in the middle. it's a clever way to make something that feels
new but also feels like it belongs with the rest of the song. the other thing I want to address is something
I said near the end of the video: in it, I mentioned how the song musically emphasizes
its civil rights message by playing things that on the surface seem fine but if you look
closer are pretty clearly wrong, and some people rightly objected to that characterization. I stand by the underlying point I was making,
but I didn't word it very well, so I thought I'd take the chance to clarify: musical ideas
can't really be "wrong" if they work. I know that. but they can be wrong within a certain framework,
and Blackbird seems to repeatedly set up the expectation that it's using standard functional
harmony and then subvert that by switching to a different approach. like, under "take these broken wings and learn
to fly" we see the IV chord, the V chord, and then a deceptive resolution to VI minor,
all of which is pretty straightforward. it even emphasizes each chord with what's
called a secondary dominant, which is just another chord you play in front of it to make
it sound like a resolution. this part is textbook functional harmony,
but instead of following up with, like, IV-V-I or something, it starts walking back down
the scale. so my point wasn't just that it was breaking
the rules, but that it was telling us which rules it was playing by and then breaking
them. that sort of subversion can carry meaning,
even if the rules themselves are fundamentally arbitrary. still, the idea that the rules of any given
musical system represent an objective measurement of quality is both wrong and dangerous, so
I apologize for implying it. and the last song I want to cover today is
Somewhere, from West Side Story. don't worry if you didn't see this video,
not many people did. honestly, I mostly made it 'cause my Grandma
likes Bernstein and Sondheim. still, it's a great song and a really fun
piece to analyze because, while most theorists agree that the verse should be read in the
key of E major, they never actually play that chord. we get some E7s but they're not stable
enough to serve as the I chord, so this song about longing for a place to call your own
can't seem to find its harmonic home. I talked about that in the first video, but
I didn't really mention the corollary in the bridge: here, we do get I chords, but the
piece begins rapidly changing keys, occupying 5 different tonal centers over the course
of 8 bars. where the verse was dreaming about a missing home, the bridge feels like it's
trying to find it. it's exploring different key centers, looking
for that mythical somewhere before ultimately giving up and winding its way back to E, where
it settles into the verse to dream some more. there's definitely a lot more to say about
this song, but honestly as a musical theater piece I think it's probably better understood
in the context of the whole show anyway, so if you want to know more about it I'll link
to the Sideways video about West Side Story in the description. it's great, and you should check it out. anyway, this is the last of this first run
of correction videos, but I'm hoping to do more in the future, so if you want to see
that let me know! when I make a mistake in an analysis, it can
lead to some embarrassment, but when I make a mistake with my online security it can lead
to much worse consequences, which is why I use Dashlane to help keep me safe. using strong passwords is vital these days,
but remembering strong passwords can be hard so lots of us just repeat the same easy ones
over and over, leaving us vulnerable to hackers. Dashlane not only generates incredibly strong
passwords, it also remembers them for you, making it easy to protect all your accounts. plus it provides other services like a VPN
to prevent you from being tracked, and dark web monitoring so if your passwords get leaked
in a data breach you can change them before it's too late. if that sounds good, you can try Dashlane
free for 30 days with the link in the description, and if you like it and want to keep going,
don't forget to use the coupon code 12tone for an additional 10% off! and hey, thanks for watching, thanks to our
Patreon patrons for making these videos possible, and extra special thanks to this video's Featured
Patron, Jill Sundgaard. if you want to help out, and get some sweet
perks like sneak peeks of upcoming episodes, there's a link to our Patreon on screen now. you can also join our mailing list to find
out about new episodes, like, share, comment, subscribe, and above all, keep on rockin'. 