- Is this idling at 220 watts. - [Alex] Yes. - Jeepers. Now at the end of out PC Pro video we told you guys that yeah,
it's awesome. (monkey cheer) but it lacks focus, like
it's not really designed for a single task. It's the middle of the road
performer for everything. Not so, with the creature
that we are showing off today. This is the Comino RM and it
is designed for one thing, and one thing only. Absolutely chewing
through video rendering. It's got four RTX 2080TI's,
a Threadripper CPU and a design like nothing
else I have ever seen before. Just like the Segway it's like nothing you've ever seen before. This video is brought to you by GlassWire. Instantly see your current
and past network activity, detect malware and block badly
behaving apps with GlassWire. Check it out in the link
in the video description to get 25% off. (computer beeps) (upbeat electronic music) To be clear I'm not saying
this is a slow machine. When we put out $32,000 PC Pro
up against a $33,000 Mac Pro, it was twice as fast in
our mark bench benchmark which is a project that
we created identically in both premier pro and
final cut to see how fast a PC versus a Mac could encode a video. However, when we take a
more specialized machine, can we beat the Mac Pro by more? There's only one way to find out. Here we go. Time remaining, oh wow, it's
actually not ahead by that much but it is ahead, so far. Man this new GPU encoding in
Adobe Premiere really hits it, doesn't it? We're seeing GPU usage as
high as 50, 70, I saw 80% for a second there and that's all four of the RTX 2080TIs. - [Alex] What's the power draw on that? - Oh cool 760 watts. - [Alex] Really that's all? - That's it.
- Huh, not to bad.
- It's efficient. I think a big part of it
it's just that it's running a Threadripper rather than an Epic. Because instead of running at
3 gigahertz and change boost this puppy is boosting
to four, 4.25 gigahertz. It's a 32 core processor! It's nuts! - Oh and it's done.
- And it's done. Lets check the times. Encoding time, one
minute 45 for the Comino. 1.51 for the PC Pro, we've got a victory. Now it's still pretty
expensive at around $15,000 but this kind of custom chassis
work and the water cooling that's inside it, does not come cheap. And it still costs about
half as much as the PC Pro. Lets go on. Wow, okay, I was not expecting this. We only have one license
for SolidWork's Visualize but apparently it's, giving
us a little bit of leeway on that right now. So, the purpose of this
program is to take a project that you've created and render it in like a super cool photo realistic
way for promotional imagery. So we gonna go ahead and take this Camaro which is included with the program and we are going to output it
- Yeah, put it right there. So that just brings up the back. And make sure the passes,
yeah make those each 1,000. - A 100,000 passes, oh my Lord. Enable de-noiser, ouch. You ready? Are gonna blow a breaker Alex? - I don't know,
- Are they hooked up to different breakers? - [Alex] I'm not entirely sure. - Oh snap, okay well the CPU's are going, the GPU's haven't checked in. We're at, holy (beep) (Alex laughs)
We're at 1,300 watts. How's it even doing that? It's not even hitting those
GPU's or so it thinks. It must be. - Yeah it is.
- Task manager has to be confused. Whoa! Hey I mean, why buy a space heater for your bedroom for the winter? Just pick up one of these puppies. Holy crap, this is only
half way through it's passes and this one is done. It goes to show you that if your work load just relies on raw GPU muscle, a Quadro is not going
to do anything for you that a G force can't. To put this in perspective,
we are twice the performance of our PC Pro which was 36
times the speed of the Mac Pro. And, we're half the price. While we wait around
for the PC Pro to finish lets set it to 100,000 passes. Lets start up the render again and have a look at the
incredible cooling system in the Comino RM here. When I filmed my initial
unboxing of this thing on our short circuit channel,
go subscribe by the way, all I can really say was, " What am I even looking at here?" Because you got your CPU with this crazy, custom block they've designed on it. You've got a loop whose
order kinda makes no sense, like it splits out and
then half of the water goes to the CPU and the other half goes to the four GPU's which
are all in like these little like GPU sandwiches,
under the motherboard. And then you've got these
incredible shielded PCI express risers, that actually run around to the underside of the motherboard tray leaving the top of the
system looking really clean. Well as it turns out, we've
been in touch with them and they've explained every funny thing that we noticed about the design. And it was all with the
intention of creating a rendering and AI just brute of a machine that is still stand alone,
so it doesn't require like a chilled air cooling
system in a data center anything like that, and reasonably quiet. So the reason that they went
with these 140 millimeter Noctua PPC 3,000 RPM
fans, is that they've got a great combination of both, airflow moving capacity
and static pressure. So they've got this seal here on the back so that the triple 120 millimeter radiator is able to get all of
the air moving through it instead of spilling out around it. The reasoning behind the triple
SFX 750 watt power supply, basically came down to
avoiding ATX power supplies because they would have
interfered with them being able to fit the triple radiator and also avoiding noisy,
redundant server style power supplies which are well, noisy. (computer hums) Whoa aye oh okay. Now we ran this benchmark
in a room temperature room so about 22 degrees
Celsius, 23 degrees celsius, for an hour and a half to give the system all the time it needed
to reach equilibrium and they managed 77 degrees
at the highest for our CPU and the maximum of just 66
degrees for our hottest GPU. So as crazy as it sounds initially, to split up your coolant flow, half to the CPU and half to four GPUs looks like that was the right move. The benefits of a water cooling system like this are twofold. One, is that each of these four GPUs, its crazy it only looks
like two GPUs doesn't it? Cause they're like, they're
sandwiched together. Each of them was turboing
to 1,800 megahertz during that long intensive test and, according to Comino anyway, they can be quickly and easily
swapped out for maintenance without even draining
the water cooling loop which I'm kinda looking at
going, um not really.(laughs) Cause what am I even looking at here. - [Alex] The GPUs are all
kinda of like on a tray and that comes out.
- Oh, there's some security torques there. Okay. Well I'm a little worried that, whoa. That's gonna happen. Come on baby. Come on you can do it. Don't be shy, oh there we go. What's it stuck on you know? Maybe you just need to just, force it. (Alex exclaims) Okay, I see their point. But I'm also not 100%
sure that I agree with it. Yes, you could strip the
cooler of of another 2080TI, take that bare PCB,
(slurps), slop it on there, and in practice I think
that opportunities to change out graphics cards
without draining the loop would be few and far between
because you know if you wanted to upgrade for example you would obviously need to replace the block. Should we pull a card off and
just have a look at the block? - [Alex] Sure, okay do it.
- I'm curious. Right now, it's held on
by only thermal compound. Which seems fine. (Alex exclaims) Should be fine Alex, just chill. Oh interesting. That is a very unusual approach. Normally manufacturers don't
try to get the tolerance to sew tight on their copper blocks. And they use a pad for memory
instead of thermal compound. And actually, you can
see the wisdom of that. So there's some, there's some
learnings in here for Comino you can see that the contact
between these memory chips on the block is not actually amazing. One of the reasons for that
is that when you're mounting a surface mount VGA components like these GPUs, the tolerances
can be a little bit off. And it's far more important
you have good contact on the GPU because these memory chips don't actually output that much heat. You can see their GPU contact is excellent so what they'd probably be better off with in the future version of this block is bringing this part down
just fraction of a millimeter and then using pads for
these just like they do with the voltage regulators
and all that kind of stuff. We can take a moment now to appreciate Comino's PCI express daughter
board, riser card thing. So, what's really neat about these, is they allow them with just
these skinny rounded connectors so instead of the like big
flat PCI express extenders to take a full 16x slot worth of bandwidth around the motherboard, around to the back of the motherboard tray. These right here, each
handle 8x worth of bandwidth so if you hook up just one of them, you would have an 8x slot. And if you hook up the second
one, you've got the full 16x bandwidth to your card. Which might not be that
important for gaming, but for computer
applications which is exactly what they're doing here,
that's absolutely critical. You want as much bandwidth
to the slot as you can get. I figured it out Alex. There's angled screws down here. - Angled screws? What angle.
- They're hiding, (grunts). Oh Lordy. Wow, hey, hie, ho, hey how's it going? - [Alex] Damn.
- That, is how a power supply is coming out. While I'm not sure I quite
buy it on the graphic cards power supply swaps do
appear to be pretty much as simple as pippity,
poppity modular interface, screw in a new one and (snaps
fingers) you're ready to rock. We're back up and
running so we're gonna do our last benchmark against our $32,000 PC. This is Octane Bench. This is a GPU rendering benchmark. Lets go ahead and have a
look at our usage here. Okay they're both fast. So that's nice. In a big surprise to absolutely no one, the Comino RM crushinated the PC Pro. With that said, as we
said about the PC Pro in our original video, it's a all rounder. So if we were to run into a situation where the were working on a project or a dataset that was so big that we need more than 11 gigabits video memory, the PC Pro would
absolutely pull out ahead. So this is more of a lesson
in buying the right tool for the job than it is
necessarily just a sales pitch for the Comino RM. It's a super cool machine but unless you absolutely know you need one of these, I probably wouldn't call
them up and you know, send them a purchase order. That said I would love to use this as our video rendering server. It's fricking fast. Just like the speed
I'm going to transition to our sponsor. Blinkist takes the best insights and most important
information from thousands of non-fiction books and
condenses them into 15 minutes. You can either read or listen from the app and you can learn about self development, and success, business
and finances, parenting, psychology, self help, all
kinds of amazing topics. And it will help you discover
different perspectives and views to incorporate
into your everyday life. You will be amazed, how much
you can learn in 15 minutes. They've got offline downloads
which makes it perfect for commutes and some of their
most popular titles include, "What to Do When Machines Do Everything," which explains how automation
can be incorporated into current business
models and "Streaming, Sharing, Stealing," which
outlines successful companies like Apple, Netflix and Amazon on how they use data to
understand their consumers in the ever changing
entertainment industry. It's available on the Google Playstore and Apple's App store
and the first 100 people to go to blinkist.com/linusttechtips, we're gonna have the link below, are gonna get unlimited access
for one week, to try it out. Also they have full length audio books now with premium subscribers
getting special pricing up to 65% off retail price. So go check them out down below. 