(S#1. GFriend stading in front of a crossroad)
Where am I? Where should I go? (They don't know where to go) Umji: Which way should I choose to go? SinB: I got lost...
SinB: I got lost(singing) Yerin: Maybe I should go this way?
No!! (S#2. It's getting harder for them to decide the right direction) (S#3. GFriend finally made up their minds!) (And they all gathered up in one place...) (Confused GF) Sowon: Everybody made it to here? Yerin: I went with the road on the left SinB: So did I
Eunha: I chose the road on the right? (Confused)
(Then suddenly they hear unknown voice) GFriend, here at StudioK!
You just got yourselves in the 'Hell Of Choices' To escape out of here, you must go through your challenges! Welcome to hell GFriend! UMHAHA Eunha: Are we in the Hell Of Choices?
(They are all in shock)
NOOOOOOOO!! Eunha: Please save us! Sowon: It's okay, guys
Sowon: We just need to make choices that we wouldn't regret (Determined) Sowon: Let's go for the challenges! GFriend is in the Hell Of Choices at StudioK with BOATTA! GFriend is in the Hell Of Choices with BOATTA PD: Okay, guys PD: Now you're in the Hell Of Choices
Welcome to the Hell Of Choices Helppp ussssss PD: So we're giving you two options that are clearly contrasted Hamster that would tear your whole house down Cockroach that is very well-behaved and kind
This is the worst SinB: I'm going with the hamster (Certain)
(Another vote for hamster) What do you mean by the cockroach that's well-behaved??? Difficulty level: Highest SinB: I don't even want to think about cockroaches... Yerin: Is it something like when I step into my house
The cockroach shows me the way to my room Yerin: And guides me 'Here is the restroom' type of thing? I hate it
SinB: And when it guides you
Ssssssssss (Its moving sound) Yerin: And you see those feelers
(Screams) And like if I sneeze, it will hand me some tissues next to me
Chzzzzzzzzzzzz Sowon: But if it's really well-behaving and kind, can I lock it up? GFriend is so into this hypothesis If it's a really kind cockroach, I hope it disappears on its own out of my house I'd choose the cockroach
Umji: Because! Tbh SinB: You love Mr. C (Cockroach), don't you...?
TBH, listen to me Umji: There are not so much difference 
Between a cockroach and a beetle
They look similar Yuju: But in our practice room though
Yuju: Didn't you see the cockroach laying eggs? Shock and horror Umji: But I'm scared of hamsters...the whole rodents I'm scared of both of them Yerin: I think you got the point We all have bad impressions on cockroaches
(Seriously analyzing the current situations about Mr. C) If we had the same impressions on both hamsters and cockroaches ever since we were born, we would have made different choices
(Discussions on fire) Beetles are not that different Sowon: I'd choose the well-behaving cockroach Why am I being convinced by this theory?
Eunha: But it does make sense..! Since the moment we were born, cockroaches have been bad friends to us... So we don't have any reasons to hate them (???), if they're being kind to us
(Sounds convincing) Sowon: Just one cockroach, right? PD: Just one! Then I'd stick with the cockroach...
Eunha: Is it small? The size of Mr. C is very much crucial for them to make the right choice I saw this huge cockroach in other country I'd prefer the big ones better (What???) Eunha: Hey, think about you can see all its every single legs and parts!!! The other day, I saw it in person
(The story that she ran into Mr. C ...)
And it was this big... Mr. C
I thought it was from foreign country Umji: I got so scared when I saw rats on the street not too long ago Where have you guys been lately?? The story they saw Mr. R (Rat) with their own eyes continuing that of Mr. C You mean the door right in front of the elevator? Yuju: I kind of started to like rats after Ratatouille
Yuju: I mean not like them but I don't hate them Yuju: I'd go with the cockroach
Umji: Me too Do I really need to make a choice? SinB: Hamster...
In pain
SinB: Ah...Idk!! Yerin: Cockroach
Eunha: So do I
Sowon: Cockroach They are all convinced Eunha: Well-behaving and kind cockroach comes to door and
'Knock Knock' Hi there, this is well-behaving and kind cockroach Umji: On our recording day for Music Bank and suddenly
'Knock Knock' Eunha: This gift is for you
Yerin: Or StudioK gives it to us This is the cockroach we talked about^^ Guys, s...stop I know when I'll die vs.
I know how I'll die It's so philosophical Yerin: But as soon as I heard this
Yerin: I wanted to choose 'I know when I'll die' (Eunha too) Because either way you die The answer sounds like this is not her first time to die
No, listen Sowon: If you knew how you'd die, then you can prevent it in advance Eunha: I'd choose 'When I'll die' because Eunha: If I was told that I would die under certain accident Eunha: Then whenever the situation comes, I'd constantly give up thinking
Eunha: 'Oh, I'm going to die' Yerin: That you don't even try and get more scared! Umji: Oh, so you mean it's better to have a deadline? Everybody seems to agree on 'When' SinB: I'm going to die around this time
SinB: So for the time being, I'll enjoy my life Knowing how you'll die is a bit...
Yerin: This one was easy! We'd go with 'When'!
Umji: Come to think of it, we always end up agreeing on the same opinion easily 100 million won that you can get right now
10 billion won that you can get after 10 yrs 10 billion after 10 years!
The difference is huge Sowon: I'd be 36 anyway!
Eunha: I might spend 100 million won in 10 years The majority chose '10 billion' Yerin: It's all hypothetical
Yerin: I think one of can go with 100 million won Yeah, what if I die in 3 years
Sad vibes out of the blue You never know what can happen Yerin: I'd choose 100 million since I don't think they won't offer that 10 billion after 10 yrs Eunha: Then they're giving us the money right now???? Are you? My account number is... It's all hypothetical guys Having only burgers for the entire month
Having only sweet potatoes for the entire month Eunha: Entire month isn't that long!
Not a life-time (Confident) I hate both options
Eunha: I'm going with burgers! So serious I like sweet potatoes better
Umji: But there are so many different kinds of burger Eunha: There are white and yellow sweet potatoes only Let's listen, Yuju! How many kinds of sweet potato are there? Expertise
Purple sweet potatoes and so on but.. I love sweet potatoes but not that much... Yuju: I'd choose burgers
Yuju: And if it's too much then I'll eat some lettuce or tomatoes only NONONONONO Nope you have to have them altogether Yuju: Well there are a lot of different types of burger so... Nono just one kind of the hamburger! (More conditions are being added) Without drinks
Only burger Yuju: Then sweet potatoes instead...
There are no drinks for sweet potatoes either, not even water Eunha: You mean you're intended to torture her for the entire month..?? Sowon: If you eat sweet potatoes for the whole month...
Feel like suffocated already Eunha: Now I know how I'll die
Eunha: Out of thirst and suffocation Yerin: I'd choose burgers as well
Me too All agreed to burgers! A month later Eunha: It's going to be so bad for our health
Yeah if it's for the entire month Yuju: I'll eat the lettuce only
Sowon: I said you can't (Firm) Yuju: (Frustrated)
Yuju: I can just pull it out..!! You 'MUST' eat the whole burger as your meal Okay but this is not going to happen so..! They are seriously into this game PD: Everyone agrees on the burgers?
Yes, we do PD: Guys, what's the title of your new song? APPLE PD: So we're doing 'the Hell Of Choices Relay Game' today PD: You will be divided into two groups to team up Palms up, Palms down and flip! Made it at once!
Yayyy Yerin: Only Umji and I need to switch our seats Umji: Let's be cool Switching up with cool vibes Let's get it started! (Starting with team on the left)  with the staffs SinB: Eunha unni has a really good hunch on Rock paper scissors Rock / Scissors
Won Paper / Paper
Paper Scissors / Rock
Lost
Failed!! Yes, I'm here at the scene of failure  A grain of rice Game SinB: But there're 4 apples?
4 apples are bet on this game I got it! A grain of rice game Descriptions: Close your eyes, scoop the grains in the cup You win if you got the given number (±3) of grains! Yerin: The grains are really small and hard to pick up
Yerin: And I think you should do it Yerin: You were good at that last time I don't know what I picked up but
SinB: I'll give it a try PD: Do you see the cup filled with grains? PD: Grab the spoon Feeling bad about this already PD: We're going to tell you 'How many grains' that you should pick up Super hard game as a start
This is so hard OMG SinB: Should I close my eyes? Yerin: Scoop up just a little SinB: (Being careful with her hands) The studio is filled with tension I have no idea 11?
Yerin: (Laughing without a word) I haven't opened my eyes yet...
(Glipmse) SinB: But for real though!
Starts counting You never know
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6...(LOL) Much more grains to count...
7, 8, 9, 10... SinB: 11-! (With other bunch of grains) Failed
SinB: This is so hard..! This is impossible like nobody can do this!
It seems fun Eunha: You two! Rock paper scissors! Next challenger: Umji Eunha: Maknae VS Maknae PD: Same number of grains, 11! Everybody is super focused
I think you got it!
11? Umji: I can't tell
Umji: Whom I should listen to at this point (Confused) Just do it! Other members think that she made it
I think you got it..?
No, I didn't Yerin: It should be ±3! 1, 2, 3, 4, 5...
Getting closer to 11 Eunha: 7, 8, 9!
I got it!
Succeeded (Well-played..!)
SinB: But this is too hard...!
For real! Umji: I thought it was a complete failure But Umji still made it! SinB: And I can't feel a thing
So we got 4 points now? Won 4 apples!!!
Eunha: Good job ♡ SinB: Pick another one please! Time to pick the next game White  Onion ring Game! Stir the straw and pull out the snacks
The team who got more snacks out wins! Umji: With my eyes closed?
PD: Yes You just made that up, didn't you!
PD: No, no! (Puzzled) You need to close your eyes Onion ring Game starts! FOCUSED
SinB: All these games are really new to me...! Eunha: For real! I have never seen these games before! Time's up!
I think she's doing great (Her heart is pounding)
WOW! A great catch
OMG!!! How many snacks are there?? How can this be possible...??? Yerin: She got lucky for sure!!!
Eunha: Wow, how many? Can you pass me a piece of paper, unni? Having a hard time to process what just happened
That was a total luck, wasn't it?? Okayyy
Yuju: Probably 8? Give or take...?
I don't know how that worked 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 Umji: 8 Onion rings
Great job!! SinB: You guessed it right so you try it
Yes, give it a go Yerin: Yuju got thisss
What if I only get three...? PD: Okay Yuju, let it begin! FOCUSED Zoned out
She's being really careful Eunha: I think she's doing pretty well!
How many?? Wait, hold on
Only 7 rings...
(So close) We lost but snacks matter Why are you satisfied? lol
Too bad PD: The winner goes to Umji this time Eunha: Umji, why are you so good at this-!! (Eating)  Team-relay Eunha: Challenging for the relay game!
SinB: Oh, it seems like we're playing Cham Cham Cham PD: Yuju, are you ready?
Yuju: Yes, is it 'Right, Left, Up, Down'? PD: Only left and right this time The directions were supposed to be right, left, up, down, weren't they? We need more options on this game SinB is a professional negotiator
Sowon: I think we should include all four directions in this game Eunha: Not including 'Stop' though!
Umji: We are only three in each team so! SinB: We probably won't make it till my turn... The staffs got convinced So it's right, left, up, down as our options? SinB: But this is going to be so funny if she doesn't make it Yuju SAFE! Cham Cham Cham failed... Hey there Yuju: What is thissss, failed on the second turn? Oh? I thought it was my turn? Nope it's not What is the next game? Eunha: Oh! Three apples! 
Listen to the lyrics and match the title of this song as well as the artist PD: Listen carefully-! (What is this) SUPER FOCUSED AKMU!
How can I love the heartbreak, you're the one I love PD: Woah...correct! Frozen
SinB: See, she's really good at this stuff! Umji played it so well And won three more apples! Eunha: We got 9 apples now!!
We got zerooo Yuju: The red one!
Yerin: Red one? Three apples
Same as the previous game Yuju: This is the same game!
We got this! SinB: I kind of envied them earlier
SinB: I wanted to try it (Mean it) Team SinB gives it a go! FOCUSED Through the Night
By IU, sunbaenim! PD: Wow, correct! They finally won their apples
Yerin: Wow, we got three apples now! (Self-congrats) Yerin: You didn't take time to listen...!
Yuju: I could tell as soon as I heard it It's a national lullaby SinB: We're good, right?
PD: You're all doing so well! I'm in trouble now Big troubles!
We didn't expect you to be this good... How many apples do you have?
Already won 9 apples Yerin: I think they'll win
Don't try to add something more difficult now! Sowon: Don't change it! SinB: Give them something difficult! More difficult ones!
I think you guys are having urgent meeting now Yerin: Let's give them something more difficult 7080! 70s or 80s! All tensed Let's guess together! (Umji got a clue already) I was so happy that I can't even forget this forever GOD sunbaenim
Love And Memory! PD: (Oh, no....)
PD: Correct... Self-congratulating performance Suddenly doing their synced dance moves SinB: We're good!
(They even performed this song on the program called Immortal songs...) SinB: Should I pick another one? PD: Okay, at this point... Did we lose...?
What? It can't be!! PD: But...
PD: It's obvious who's winning....
Shocked You mean we're going to lose?
It provoked their pride That's not true! You don't know how this is going to be later on! We let them win the first half!
Our team name is called 'Acceleration'!!! Umji: (Doesn't care)
PD: 15 apples then? SinB: How many do they have?
PD: As of now...they have 12 Umji: The game was supposed to be done if one of us gets 10 apples but they changed it to 15! Hey
We only got three now... SinB! Go pick the next one SinB: Which color should I go for?
White! Yerin: I think green is def not our color of the day SinB: This was hidden... I have a bad feeling about this...
Nooo!!!
(Putting it back...) (Audacious)
She picked Cham Cham Cham again NOPE
It's Cham Cham Cham SinB: She's being so harsh on us... SinB: They even have 12 apples!!!
While we only got three!! Eunha: You can do this! SinB, SAFE! (Stares) Umji: Look at her face LOL (Looking away) SinB: Did something happen?
Eunha: I think I saw a mosquito flying in that directon No, somebody talked to me here
I did X 4 I said 'Yuju!'
Yerin: I had something to say to Yuju Yerin: So let's give it another try?
The winner's generosity to feel bad for their opponents They are patronizing us!! Okay, I gotta admit my pride is bit damaged SinB: This team is only one more game away to their victory PD: You can choose either playing Cham Cham Cham again or another game Let's pick another one SinB: We got zero chance on Cham Cham Cham Yuju: We haven't picked any yellows so I'm going for this one Hold on, we did this before...
Zero lucks on draws either... Yuju: We ate most of the snacks...not so many left... Eunha: I have a lot in my stomach as well...
Yerin: We can take some out of your stomach then^^  Paper cup Game
What is this? It's a success if SinB finds the stickers on Yuju's body! I can't see (Whispering not to let SinB eavesdrop their convo) Ready, set, go!
Paper cup Game starts! But wait
Which hand should I use while I'm holding these cups like this? (Confused body language)
Yuju: Use it when you find one (Calm) Found it!!
Yerin: Then point it with your eye!! Heeereeee (Awkward pose)
Hard success SinB: We got two more pts... (Yerin is laughing so hard)
Whew, two more pts... Eunha: Congrats! It was a difficult game! Yess 5 points total!
We wanted it so bad SinB: It was a clearer view than I'd expected I can't see anything!!
Eunha: What do you mean that you got a view....? It was on the same extension to the direction she looked down Moving on to the next game!
Their turn to pick? Okay
May I?
Yes please! (Our best player's turn) Picked the red one  Chair Game!
When the chair stops, you should exactly point the front Round and Round, Chair Game Descriptions: The chair will be spinned with your eyes closed After the chair stops, point the front! Yuju: This is really fun to watch Like I'm looking at babo...
(Crying) (Safety Agent)
Have you fastened your seat belt? Then here we begin!
Let's go! Spinning Yuju: Don't make a single sound. Try not to react Silence Umji: Woah, wait a min (You made a perfect spin)
Umji: I should point the front? Umji's lonely monologue
Am I still spinning?
No? Aren't I still spinning?
Umji: It hasn't stopped, has it? We can't answer to that...
I feel like I'm still spinning You're not speaking to avoid making any sounds right?
But did it really stop? One more time Let's spin again! (Suffocating silence) Umji: I think it just stopped (They're doing 'Try not to laugh' challenge)
Give me 5 seconds (Here?)
That pointing move was strong Sowon: You were so serious SinB: This is so hard
Yuju: Can one of us try this game too? This is so funny
I want to try! Next challenger, Yerin Eunha: I don't think it matters who spins this chair
No it doesn't Getting nervous (Oh...OH??) (Unexpected happening) All the members and staffs got startled I...I was 
I was having my eyes closed... She keeps laughing... Unni, you fell in peace... Sowon: You know why?
She didn't even know she was falling
Because she kept her eyes closed Umji: I saw your face at that very moment you fell Umji: You seemed so calm..! When I opened my eyes
And Umji was holding me... Unintended team kill
(Falls on the floor) It's getting more hilarious as they keep thinking about it SinB: Unni fell with a smile on her face
So peacefully... Peaceful smile Everybody's laughing Umji: And made a safe landing I'm not dead right...? Sowon: You have tears on your face... Yerin is crying out of laughing so hard
She's not sad guys, she just was just laughing hard Umji: Perfect for thumbnails
Umji: Please make this as our thumbnails (GF started making jokes about her) Yerin: I fell from here to there?? Truth that's hard to believe SinB: Okay, here we go
Yerin: No everyone, don't laugh! Nervous moment (So funny) Focused... Yerin: Where am I at now...mm... I'd go...! (Umji)
Failed! SinB: This is so much fun Their type of game Yerin: Hold on!! I thought I was supposed to point someone who saved my life? (Audacious) 5th round for this chair game already Sowon: Woah, this is so scary Sowon: (Pretending to be okay)
I totally got it Omg, I can really tell how this works 
Here Sowon: (Awkward)  Jollypong Game Same descripstions from the grains game Eunha: How many Jollypong we should get type of game? It sounds difficult
SinB: Guys, three apples are bet on this one (So ready) PD: Okay, have your eyes closed! That's quite a lot Yuju: Slightly different from the grains... Utilizing the spoon Scooping up a lot without hesitation (Still staying calm despite of others' reactons) Handful
How many would there be? (Spreading)
(Starts counting) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5... Not sure yet
6, 7, 8, 9, 10 Yerin: It's 10! I can roughly tell that u didn't make it... Failed The best player, Umji's turn!
PD: Umji, keep your eyes closed please Yerin: It's kind of vague number
Yerin: It's a bit vague but that might be better Being careful with her spoon SinB: It seems about right...
Eunha: Oh, it seems right They're sensing the winner's vibe already
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 OMG
Chillssssss (Speechless)
You're like what, human scale? I'm the MVP SinB: This is ours then!
(Jollypong got stolen) Eunha: We're getting the winner's gift! I like dietary fiber better
She said dietary fiber LOL PD: The victory goes to -
Team Sowon, Eunha, Umji! Overwhelming performance PD: But we're trapped in the Hell of Choices, remember? PD: So you need to choose between the prize A and B Yerin: Oh, so if the prize um... Are we having the prize they didn't choose? PD: Yes, you are SinB: Go with A of Apple
Eunha: Since it's Apple so! Umji: I think B would be better
MVP's opinion matters Eunha: We're going with B!
Everybody got quiet in the studio
What happened? It's an Apple peel, apple peel for real
We're getting the apple juice
Or the apple seed Prizes were given to both teams!
Thank you! Dried apple chips & a box of apple juice Do we deserve this though...?? Everyone did such a great job! Thank you so much!!
We lost but won^^ Sowon: We finally escaped from the Hell of Choices! Sowon: We got to try different games today and how was it guys? Eunha: Umji did a great job today!!! Eunha: We won the 1st prize...
Eunha: I meant we won! And I had a lot of fun Umji: I wasn't expecting you would make us choose even at the last moment...! It was exciting Their team is satisfied with the apple chips
I think we made a good choice Yerin: I've literally
Been to hell^^
LOL Yuju: I'm just really sorry for Yerin unni... Yuju: I really enjoyed the games but
Yuju: I'll try to take easy with my strength from now on I really want to see it
Yerin: As soon as this is uploaded on Youtube, I'll go check it out myself You're not going to edit this, are you?
(Telling them not to cut it) We didn't! Sowon: Okay, so we can't just leave like this since we're here with StudioK! Sowon: We're about to show you the performance of our new song, 'APPLE' Sowon: I hope you enjoy GFriend's APPLE and send us lots of love!!! Please send us lots of love with our new song APPLE ♡ This has been GFriend!
Thank you guys!! 