fromis_9 Today Let me tell you what we'll be doing Expressiveness game (Wow) She already started We will try to express a given word or phrase
with an animal sound OK (Hoi) (Moving on to ladder lottery) Saerom is a bumble bee That suits her Hayoung, monkey Wah (100% the same) (Hahaha) How do you do the penguin? Should I do this? You have to make a noise Peng peng Peng ha peng ha (Copying someone) (Everyone means to help her) (Jisun got a horse) (Teasing, teasing) (Since it's taking a while,
everyone picking at once) What? I think it's unfair - I chose wrong
- I'm a chicken (Jiwon is serious
about being a chicken 200%) Bird Chirp, chirp She chose what's similar to her Jiwon is my mom Hey, man, I never had a child like you Mom (Moving on to the real game) (Confused, confused) Make a noise, Jiheon (Cute) Ung(heung)ung(heung) Steamed bun Ung(heung)ung(heung) Ung(heung)ung(heung) That's not a tiger.. Sandwich Ung(heung).. (Flustered, lost) Ung(heung)ung(heung)ung(heung) No dance Not me (Trying hard to describe it..) Hit and kiss (What...?) (Thinking hard)
Just do something I I You are not the person I know (Just talking nonsense) Ung(heung)ung(heung)ung(heung)ung(heung) The Girl Who Leapt Through Time (Please get it right) Stairs? Stairway to Heaven (Frustrated, frustrated) Go downstairs Emergency exist What? Just do it (Completely lost) No, you can do it (Ding dong) Ring the bell and run Ring the bell and run That doesn't fit the theme Roar Roar? Delivery Kiki's Service Delivery Girl Kiki It's Delivery Kiki's Service.. (Trying her best to act it out) A sudden dizziness! What? Parasite, Parasite Roar Roar Strong wind (Answer: Parasite) Oh.. Parasite.. Seoyeon said it before (Sorry) (Jiheon couldn't describe well
since she doesn't know its plot) (Gyuri) Ung(heung)ung(heung)ung(heung)ung(heung) Ung(heung)ung(heung)ung(heung)ung(heung) Ung(heung)ung(heung)ung(heung)ung(heung) You don't know anything Argh.. (Could it be paper doll...?) (Doing her best) (Please get it) G teacher Ung(heung)ung(heung)ung(heung)ung(heung) (Please get it) Itaewon Class? Ung(heung)ung(heung) Ung(heung)ung(heung)ung(heung)ung(heung) (Me?) Gyuri? I'm the teacher and you are a student Ah.. Ung(heung)ung(heung)ung(heung)ung(heung) Oh? Sweet potato, sweet potato Why is she so bad? (Look at my hand..) Banana Palm tree Sickle, sickle You don't know a thing (Jiwon got it faster than everyone else) Wow~ (I'm good indeed) (Nagyung is next) Legally Blonde (No, no) Blonde.. blonde.. Legally Blonde? What is it? Hahaha Snow white Lemon?
(Ding dong dang) (Won't approve) Chirp chirp chirp Civil War.. Wakanda forever Ah.. Avengers Avengers (Almost there)
End Game (So excited) (Bang) Even a worm will turn Chirp (Hahaha) (Cute hahaha) Chirp chirp chirp Rapper Do it again Chirp chirp chirp, chirp chirp chirp,
chirp chirp chirp Chirp Chirp (Come on) Is it that? Hey, man, even went
to a sauna with your boss Which Choi are you? (Frustrated) Chirp chirp chirp chirp Ah You go to Hawaii No You ate a lot (Stop it, you ate a lot) Yeah Wow, so good.. Jiwon, go So good I don't think any of us will get her (Warming up) Cluck cluck (Warming up) (Trying her best) Curling curling (It's obvious it's curling) What is this? (Confused, confused) Cluck cluck Gyeonwoo (My Sassy Girl) Love comes back Cluck cluck cluck cluck.. Subway train (Her expressions are clear) Ah oh oh (Replay) Cluck cluck Cluck cluck, cluck cluck, cluck Architecture 101? (Ding dong dang dong) (Chap chap chap chap) (Happy happy) Hot pack? Ah (Hahaha) Oh wait (Screen adjustment time) Hayoung looks exactly like the character (Shy) (Copying) She didn't cover up her face
but that one I feel shy
(Everyone, look how cute Hayoung is) (Taking a break)
Answer, monkey (Warming up) (Someone from fromis_9
what is wrong with her) (Warming up) Answer, Shawshank Redemption (Understood it) Oh ah ah ah Smelly Wow, that bread smells good (Swoosh) Oh oops Mask Woo ha ha (Heup) ha~ Don't guess - Fun, fun
- Air freshener - Don't guess
- Air freshener Don't guess for now Let's not get it right for now (Roommates are having fun
teasing Hayoung) She's doing it, she's doing it (Why is she so cute?) Looks good Old habits die hard Ah so cute Can we do about 10? Should I give you mine? (You) Wow fromis_9? fromis_9 is back Is ti 9 letters? (Nodding, nodding) Wow fromis_9 Eh eh is back (Just watching her as her fans hahaha) I have no idea You like it? You like what? You are so (They have no idea) (Swoosh) Diary? Calendar - You..
- She said 9 letters Puppy You are dot dot dot? I'm a puppy for you only (Frustrated to the max) Hayoung must not know herself Wharf wharf wharf Dog (Swoosh) Are you a dog? Window Isn't that a dog? (Finally got it) First letter is dog? Uh..wharf.. No, no Whoa (Dying of cuteness) Are you..a dog? (Yes) Ah (Moving moving) Do you like her or me? Oh..ah..no.. (Hahahaha) It must be you You Do you like her or me? (No no no) You had a plan all along Oh ah Yay (So happy hahaha) She's good at getting weird things right (Finally, Chaeyoung the chick's time)
Peep peep peep peep Peep peep peep peep (Copying her) Into the Unknown, Frozen Correct Peep peep peep peep,
peep peep peep peep What goes around comes around (Got impressed herself) (Jiwon found her new talent) (Happy birthday, happy birthday) Birthday cake Seaweed soup (Hahaha) Peep peep Snowboard Surfing, surfing (Doing the next one) Peep! Peep peep peep... Peep USB? - Oh, an outlet?
- Correct Wow, so good (Jisun the horse came out)
(Absent-minded) A horse Ah a horse? Clop clop (Calm) (YOU) (Me?) (You should try guessing as well) TV? A sheet of paper? TV? (Trying her best to explain) Celebrity? Wave? I didn't watch this (Oh oops) Clop clop What did you do? What did you see?
Tell me what you watched Crash Landing on You? (Saying everything Jiheon watched) Is it a variety show? Love Naggers It's a drama? (It's a drama) You watched so many I watched so many Didn't you watch that? Oh (that) (Yes, that one) (I know it too) (I can't remember the title) (Scared) Ah, Hotel del Luna (Happiness symbol) (Ding dong dang, correct) You had to say clop, not ah (3 minutes ago) Clop! Clo, clop You go to Hawaii Clop clop clop clop What is that?
What animal are you? What does your father do? Yes!
(Ding dong dang) (So shocked)
(Dying of laughter) How did she know that seriously? Wow, incredible
(Got shocked herself) (Getting ready for the next question) Clop(Wow) Oh dear, oh dear.. Let's not say anything Let's not say anything It's been a while since
Jisun did something like that Hey describe better It's been a while since
I saw her like that (Discouraged) Clop I think I know what it is Carousel? Let's not guess (Getting mad) Infinity? No, no (Got calm and explains again) Circus? (No one has an idea) Clop (This, this) - Slide?
- Yes What? (Surprised) I wish I saw her more (Too bad) What's the matter with me? Clop A swing (Correct hahaha) (The funniest person
in the world: Roh Jisun) I'm sure you'll make it fun No, no Don't say that You guys look cute Cute (Saerom is cuter) Buzz buzz Buzz buzz Sun, sun Descendants of the Sun (So happy she got it) (With confidence,
moved onto the next one) Clipping nails? Candy, candy Ah.. (Changing her mind) Oh my goodness
(Saerom feels lost) Please don't cry So whiny (Copying her)
(Breathless) It's hard (Argh bitter) Medicine Herbal medicine (Argh bitter)
(Really trying her best to act it out) (No) When good cheer is lacking,
our friends will be packing? (Ding dong dang) Buzz buzz (Buffering) Whale whale Jaws Shark Shark's fin Fish (Oh) (Edible) Fish.. Fish shaped bread (Answer, fish shaped bread) Wow.. Saerom She's so good So good So original Okay, 1, 2, give an applause (Cheering for their leader) (Got encouraged and
moved on to the next one) Pigeon Pigeon lady (Very frustrated) Stop whining (Hahaha) Are you looking for Blue Marble? It's like Blue Marble
(Nodding, nodding) The board game
(Right, right) How is this a board game? (Gyuri the penguin is ready)
(Feeling lost) (Dumbfounded) (Everyone is waiting
for Gyuri the penguin) Um.. Ror ror Ror.. argh haha (Harsh reality) (Nom nom)
Chicken (Similar) Chicken drumsticks Sausage and rice cake? Caveman? Rib, rib? (Cheering inside) Back ribs Chicken ribs Short ribs Rib, rib?
(A crucial hint) Suwon king ribs Oh Extreme Job Isn't it over? (Hello) Oh the line Oh (Preparing for the line haha) You've never tasted anything like it,
is it ribs or chicken? (Hahah) (No, no) (Explaining quickly again) Suwon King Ribs Chicken Do you need to say everything
from start to finish? All of it? Wrong, wrong.. (Whispering) (Hahaha) You've never tasted anything like it,
is it ribs or chicken? Hi, this is Suwon King Ribs Chicken Chicken? Is it not chicken? This should be good enough You've never tasted anything like it, is it 'chicken' or 'ribs'? (Correct) Oh so hard Oh oh oh Dumbfounded Pasta Vongole pasta What are you making? Eat all you want? Number Buffet, buffet (So hot) Mala pot (Teary) Ho oh oh Shaved ice (That that that) Ice cream Ice cream Soft serve ice cream (No) Slush Shaved ice with red beans
(Ding dong dang) Why are you so cute? Sigh.. (Teary) She goes like this but good (Complimenting Gyuri hahaha) (Hesitant, hesitant) Sigh.. (Gyuri the penguin
has a lot of worries) Were you acting just now? (No no) I think you were acting (Gyuri the penguin
is doing the next one) Cherry, cherry Sweet potato Banana? Chocolate? (Shouting many wrong answers) Ho oh oh oh (Hahaha) Chocolate factory (Happiness symbol) Willy and the Chocolate Factory? Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (Ding dong dang, correct) (Person who got the most answers right:
Roh Jisun) How did you get that right? (Gyuri the penguin->Seoyeon the sheep) So fun, so fun (Seoyeon is doing the first problem) Cloud Early bird Mice hear you at night,
birds hear you in the day (No, no) (Flip it) Birds hear you in the day,
mice hear you at night Why did she jump? (Out of her mind) What? Model? Model, model - Model
- Catwalk Solo? Ah (Hahaha) (Shy) Baa baa baa I was just born cute (Once again)
Baa baa baa, baa baa baa I love you, mister Goblin (Ding dong dang dong, correct) (Seoyeon is doing the next one) (Guys, watch how cute Seoyeon is) Frog Frog in a well (Correct) Ah cute Wow Hayoung Hoo Soap bubbles No, it's dandelions (Ding dong dang dong) No
(Cute) (That's right, preview
for the next episode) Please don't edit that out Gyuri Nagyung (Fascinated) It's fine, it's fine
(Stay tuned for episode 2 of expressiveness game) Pass Wait, I can't concentrate 