- Alright, guys, well we
have spotted four hippos. The most dangerous animal
in all of South Africa. And we are safe inside
of this vehicle, but I'm going to get out of it. (door slams) Let's see if I can get
up close with a hippo. (hippo roars and grunts) The hippos are coming! Go! Go, go, go, go! - [Coyote] The grasslands
of South Africa seem to stretch on forever. An infinite playground, where
under the warmth of the sun, the animals enjoy
this wild place. Yet, as the afternoon wears on, and the sun slowly
falls below the horizon, darkness sets in and casts
a much different feel. As under the cover of nightfall, the beast emerge from hiding. What's going on, Coyote Pack? Right now, we are on
location in South Africa. And tonight is a full moon, which is the perfect opportunity
for us to see animals. However, we're going to
employ some new technology. Check this out. Mario, dim that light
down just a bit. Alright, Mark, are you ready? - [Mark] Infrared is on. Ooh, cool, this
camera technology will help us see
animals at night. And because a rainstorm
just moved through, it's the perfect time for one
of the largest land mammals, the hippopotamus, to move up from the river
systems, and start feeding. So, if you guys are ready, let's see if we can
get one of these giants up close for the cameras. - The Kriega Game
Reserve spans 10 hectares of Eastern Cape wilderness. And this protected area,
provides refuge for several of South Africa's
biggest animals, including rhinoceros, elephants, and the unmistakable,
hippopotamus. Seeing elephants and rhinos under the light of
day is rather common as these giant grazers, with
their tough, leathery skin, are quite resilient to
the sun's scorching rays. When it comes to hippos, their
skin is much more sensitive, and they spend the
majority of their days grazing in the cool confines
of rivers and billabongs. That is, until the
sun disappears, and the moon
illuminates the savanna. (suspenseful music) Yeah, it's still warm. Definitely fresh
hippo droppings, but the ground here
is really dense. Really rocky. I'm not really
seeing any tracks. Actually, just off the
side of the vehicle, this is where they
would have come up at. Oh, yeah. Look at this. There's a track. That's actually track going
back down into the water. These are fresh; look at that. You can see the
distinct toe markings. Wow! I can smell em. It smells like a
hippo down here. - [Mike] If you get
eaten right now, this will be the
best video ever... Just kidding. - [Coyote] Yeah, I was just
thinking that same thing. You probably don't want to get
right down next to the water when you've had a hippo
that's just moved through. Actually, the
tracks came from... There's some here, too. Alright, well, the hippos
are up and on the move, which means there's
a good chance that we're gonna find them. Alright, let's keep truckin. (engine starts) - On a full moon, once the human eye
adjusts to the darkness, it's surprising how well
one can actually see. When it comes to cameras,
by using the combination of infrared technology
and night-vision settings, they are able to see even
more than the human eye, which will provide a
much-needed advantage when it comes to spotting
hungry hippos in the distance. [Cameraman] So, Coyote, these
hippos are going to come right up out of the water? - Yeah, at night, hippos
come up out of the water because they are very
sensitive to sunlight. Their bodies can get
burnt really easily, so they come out at night to feed amongst all
the moist grasses. Now, they can travel as
far as six miles away from their main water source. So, if we're lucky, we'll
see them out grazing. For an animal that can
weigh nearly 4,000 pounds, hippos can cover quite
a bit of distance in a rather short time. And as they venture away from the water and muddy embankments, they become increasingly
difficult to track. So, as we slowly
ventured across the park, we knew that having
an encounter, meant being in exactly
the right place at exactly the right time. (suspenseful music) Alright, guys, well we
have spotted four hippos. The most dangerous animal
in all of South Africa. And we are safe inside
of this vehicle, but I'm going to get out of it. (door slams) Let's see if I can get
up close with a hippo. (hippo roars and grunts) - [Cameraman] Coyote,
you're back so soon. - Yep, the hippos are coming. Go! Go, go, go, go. (engine starts) Just kidding. When it comes to
dangerous animals, hippos are without question one of South
Africa's most deadly. And whether in the water
or on land, they are fast, reaching speeds of
nearly 20 miles per hour. So tempting fate by getting
unsafely close on foot, simply was not an option. So the search continues. (intense music) Alright, ready. You rolling. - [Cameraman] Yeah. - There he is, right
out there. You see it? It doesn't quite realize
that it's been spotted yet, and what's really cool about
hippos is that their eyes glow red in the light.
Almost like a crocodile. Oh, I want to badly to
get out of the vehicle and try to get closer, but
that is way too dangerous. You look at an animal
that size, and actually, as compared to the elephant
and the white rhino, this is the third heaviest
land animal in the world. That mouth is massive, and they can open up
their jaws like this, and they have those
huge ivory tusks, and that's what's
going to do the damage. And males, oftentimes,
can be very territorial. Not only battling
with other males but they will kill younger
males, specifically babies, if they are not their own. Oh, he knows he's
been spotted now. Look at the nostrils. So cool
the way they're positioned up on top of the
snout like that. So cool to be this
close to this animal. - [Cameraman] It's pretty close. You can't tell in the
camera, but it's... What would you say? - It's close. It's about
30 yards from us right now. And I do wish that I could
get out of the vehicle and get you guys up closer, but hippos, despite the fact
that they are large and plump, can be quite speedy, and if it gets startled and
it runs in this direction, we would be in some
serious trouble. - [Cameraman] Are we in
any danger right now? - [Coyote] No. Not
right now at all because we are
inside this vehicle, but if I were to get out
and try to get us closer, the cameras closer,
you guys closer, this may be the last
episode of Breaking Trail we ever make. Let me try to call
to it. Hold on. (roars and grunts) I've caught its attention. Turned its head this way. Here we go. (Coyote roars and grunts) (more grunts) This is clearly working. We've got the hippo's
full attention right now. One more time, here we go. (roars and grunts) It's a little bit
closer to a baboon noise than it is a hippo noise, but it definitely has
the animal's attention. - [Cameraman] I don't
think it's working. - [Coyote] No. It's
not coming any closer. He's like, "I'm gonna go back to munching on these
moist grasses." - [Cameraman] Whoa. - [Coyote] Look at this. Hippo in motion. Look at those short,
little stocky legs. Like plump little sausages. Slowly skirting the hippo
through the underbrush. Well, how cool was this? Coming out with night vision
technology and getting a hippo, relatively close
for the cameras. I'm Coyote Peterson. Be brave. Stay wild. We'll see you on
the next adventure. (roars and grunts) I consider the hippopotamus,
despite its popular place in human culture, to
be one of nature's more bizarre mammals. From intimidating size
to grumpy attitude, they are certainly an
animal that is best admired from a distance. To safely observe
them out of the water and behaving naturally
under the cover of night, was a fascinating encounter. And our distance leaves much
opportunity for us to one day return to Kariega Game Reserve where we hope to get
the cameras even closer. Hey, Coyote Pack, I
have some exciting news. I am proud to announce
that the crew and I are headed back on tour
with Brave Wilderness Live. Our next shows take
place in the Midwest. Tickets can be purchased at
the Brave Wilderness website, and these shows are
certain to sell out. So make sure that you
reserve your seats today, and don't forget, subscribe,
so you can join me and the crew on our next big adventure. I'm Coyote Peterson. Be brave. - [Audience] Stay wild. 