"When you bring me out,
Can you introduce me as Joker?" Todd Phillips’ Joker tells
*a* Joker origin story, but it doesn’t tell
*the* origin story because there isn’t one. Over the years the Joker
himself has given conflicting accounts
of how he came to be. “You dropped me into
that vat of chemicals!” “I stick a razor in my mouth
and do this... to myself.” “When I was a little boy and
told people I was gonna be a comedian, everyone laughed at me. Well, no one’s laughing now.” It’s even possible
he’s made them all up, or doesn’t remember
his real origin. But where did the character of the Joker come from? And what made him one of the most iconic
comic-book villains of all-time? The colorfully clad
perfect enemy of the Dark Knight made his debut in the pages
of Batman #1 in 1940. Since then, Joker has morphed with
each new interpretation of the character, yet through the years
he’s remained recognizably “the Joker” from his sinister clown appearance
to his twisted “jokes” with punchlines that only make sense to someone detached
from all notions of right and wrong. "I'm gonna make this pencil disappear." "TA-DA! It's gone." His crimes are a means to an end--
the point is chaos “I'm an agent of chaos.” Like Batman, he has no superpowers--
the Joker is most threatening on philosophical, moral and human levels. “Some men just want to
watch the world burn." So here’s our take on the history that’s led to the Joker of today and what's really behind
that unsettling grin. “It's gonna make you smile.” “Uh-oh! His smile is our grimace” And use the code THETAKE
To get up to 91 percent off. Almost every element that would come
to define the Joker can be found in
his first appearance, Batman #1. The first comic book to feature
Batman’s name in the title featured a retelling of Batman’s origin,
the debut of Catwoman, and opening and closing
stories both involving the Joker. Already in 1940, he had the trademark
juxtaposition of mirth and malevolence, The purple suit, and the look:
a pale face whose resting expression is a disturbing smile. Joker owes that to some combination
of artists Jerry Robinson and Bob Kane, and writer Bill Finger. Each gave conflicting accounts of
how the idea was born, but all pointed to two inspirations:
a Joker playing card, and actor Conrad Veidt’s appearance
in the 1928 adaptation of Victor Hugo’s The Man Who Laughs. That character’s childhood disfigurement
has made him an outcast from society-- and he’s only laughing on the outside, whereas with the Joker,
we’re never quite sure. "I’m only laughing on the outside,
my smile is just skin-deep." Batman #1 established the Joker
as a showman with a gift for irony. Using the radio, he announces his plans to kill a millionaire
and steal his prized possession. He then proceeds to horrifically
murder the man with gas that freezes his face in a smile. Joker’s lethal laughing gas-- a weapon that embodies
his particular brand of danger-- would continue to be a staple
of the character’s arsenal for the rest of his existence. "If you've got to go...
...go with a smile. " "Smylex gas... He's going to kill everybody!" Batman began as a grim avenger starring in violent stories inspired by pulp fiction,
but he didn’t stay that way for long. He picked up a boy sidekick, Robin,
and with him even more kid readers. As the age of comics readers drifted downward,
the stories grew softer. And after the panic over comic books’ influence
on young readers led to a 1954 Senate hearing, "The comic books are an important
contributing factor in many cases of juvenile delinquency." and the self-censoring Comics Code Authority,
they grew softer still. What place did a psychopathic mass murderer
have in this puritanical environment? The Joker adapted by turning into a sillier,
less lethal character. And this would set up a question
that’s come into play with all Jokers since: to what extent should this
clownish villain be truly scary, versus enjoyably playful,
or even likeable? In the 1946 story “The Joker Follows Suit,”
he built a Jokermobile and Joker Plane. At heart, he remained the same-- a man detached from reality
laughing at jokes only he understood. He just became less of a threat. And he showed up less frequently. In the ’50s and early ’60s, Batman and
Robin got increasingly wrapped up in science fiction-inspired stories that took them away from
the grim back alleys of Gotham. It would take another medium to put
the Clown Prince of Crime back on top. “Hello kiddies, meet the Joker. No hard feelings…” The Batman TV sensation premiering
in 1966 offered a knowing riff on the more kid-friendly Batman stories
the show creators grew up reading. "Ask yourselves what is wrong
with this sentence? He who laughs last, laughs good! (laughs)"
"Holy grammar!” But Cesar Romero’s dead-eyed stare
and maniacal laugh (laughing) still gave his Joker an edge. "If they do not see the joke
pull the rope and let them choke!" Even when he’s attempting to intimidate
a bunch of high school athletes. “When the board of education sees this picture
with you holding the answer to those exams... Ho, ho, ho, ho!” “Good gosh, we'll be suspended” or facing off with Batman
over a surfing contest, "I'm challenging you to the surfing title
Of the Gotham Point World Championships." For a generation of TV viewers,
Romero was the definitive Joker, and thus he asserted an influence
on interpretations that followed-— even those that defined themselves
in opposition to his cartoonishness. (Laughing) “Corny, aren’t I?” When the TV series’ popularity waned,
so did the Joker’s fortunes. Too tied to the now canceled series,
he effectively disappeared from the pages of Batman’s comics for a few years. Then, in the early ’70s, he was reborn as an incarnation
of his darker original self-- thanks in large part to
an influx of new talent. Stories like “The Joker’s Five-Way Revenge”
and “The Laughing Fish” restored his old menace
and lethal tactics, while tapping into
his peculiar type of madness. In “The Laughing Fish,” the Joker attempts
to copyright fish he’s poisoned, freezing their faces in a smile
that resembles his-- a quintessential example of the warped logic
that drives the character’s actions. In 1975, the Joker was even
the first supervillain ever to get his own comic book series. It was cancelled
after only nine issues-- whether that was because
his edge had to be blunted to suit the still-in-place
Comics Code Authority, or because readers weren’t yet ready
for this psychopath to be a protagonist. But though the comic might have failed,
it wouldn't be the last time that the Joker became the center of a story,
or that readers were asked to sympathize with his point of view. The 1980s saw a darkening of Batman stories—
and of mainstream comics in general-- thanks especially to Frank Miller’s
The Dark Knight Returns and Alan Moore and Brian Bolland’s
The Killing Joke.   “The Killing Joke” has the Joker
shooting Batgirl Barbara Gordon, leaving her permanently paralyzed,
and forcing her dad, Police Commissioner Jim Gordon, to look at naked photos
of her injured body. In the 1988 story “A Death in the Family,”
Joker beats the second Robin, Jason Todd, with a crowbar,
and then blows him up— but only after readers voted for his death
by calling a 1-900 number. For better or worse, Batman’s readers
had become bloodthirsty and Joker stories helped sate that thirst. We can see the legacy of this dark turn
clearly in modern renditions of the Joker. “Oh, I’m not gonna kill ya,
I’m just gonna hurt ya, really, really bad." By the late 80s,
Joker was also ready to help Batman make
the leap to the big screen. Enter Jack Nicholson. “You can call me Joker.” Tim Burton’s 1989 Batman was a film
built around dualities, so it posited the Joker as the opposite
in every way to Michael Keaton’s Batman: evil to his good,
chaos to his order, attention-hungry extrovert
to his secretive introvert. “You ever dance with the devil
in the pale moonlight?” “What?” “I always ask that of all my prey-- I just like the sound of it.” Nicholson filtered
the spirit of the character through his own bigger-than-life
movie star persona, "Here's Johnny!" bringing a sardonic,
unhinged menace to the role. “You can’t make an omelet
without breaking some eggs.” He might not seem remarkably
dark compared to what we’ve seen since, but Nicholson’s new extreme of
black-hearted malevolence was a departure from what came before onscreen
and it would lay the groundwork for the Joker’s even bleaker
future at the cinema. “Why so serious?” Burton's film heightens 
the Joker’s fixation on Batman-- and explores where his
obsession comes from “And where… is the Batman?" The film inserts the Joker
into Batman's origins by making him the killer of Bruce Wayne's parents. “You killed my parents.” And, vice versa, it makes Batman
accidentally responsible for the Joker’s fall into the vat of chemicals
that made him how he is. "You made me!" Incidentally, the vat of chemicals
is the most famous version of Joker’s origin story--
it was first seen in the 1951 story, “The Man Behind the Red Hood” and
repeated in Batman: The Killing Joke. Burton’s depiction of this hero
and villain pair who created each other "I made you, but you made me first." "I was a kid when I killed your parents." established the pair’s codependency
bordering on a toxic love affair that we can see explored in
later renditions of the story: “I'm fine with you fighting
other people if you wanna do that, but what we have is special." The new round of Batmania
sparked by Burton’s film led to the 1992 debut of
Batman: The Animated Series. “Justice is served hot, Batman… You’re going to melt just like
a grilled cheese sandwich.” This series’ Joker--
voiced by Mark Hamill-- was the most psychologically
complex version of the character yet "Who's given more hours of amusement
to the Gotham police force than me?" Complicating matters was
the introduction of Harley Quinn, a psychiatrist who falls in love with Joker
while treating him at Arkham Asylum "It's only natural you'd be attracted
to a man who could make you laugh again." "I knew you'd understand!" "Anytime."   Quinn’s love immediately made the Joker
a more complicated person. What did it say about him that he could
inspire this kind of passionate love in another human being? Was he capable of returning it “Baby, you’re the greatest!” or merely exploiting any person
unlucky enough to fall for him? “You were gonna come back for me,
weren't you, puddin'?" "Of course, pumpkin pie. It's just that,
well, here you are, so I can save myself a trip!” And could his fascination with anyone else
rival the level of his hang-up on Batman? "You're always taking shots from folks
who just don't get the joke. Like my dad. Or Batman." On one level, with Harley Quinn, the Joker’s villainy felt
more personally offensive-- as he was depicted as an abusive creep
toward a loving girlfriend. "My fault... I didn't get the joke..." At other times, her love seemed to have
the potential to redeem him-- or at least humanize him--
as this madwoman-soulmate offered audiences a bridge
toward understanding him. "And I thought my jokes were bad." Our modern understanding of the Joker
is defined by Heath Ledger. "When the chips are down... These uh... These civilized people-- They’ll eat each other." After teasing the Joker’s existence
in the final moments of Batman Begins, Christopher Nolan put him at the center
of its sequel, The Dark Knight. The morality play pits
Christian Bale’s Batman against a ruthless crime lord
who is nihilism embodied. “This city just showed you that it's full
of people ready to believe in good.” “Until their spirit breaks completely.” Now his jokes aren’t merely
for entertaining his own sick mind-- they’re strategically undermining
all the meaning and values society takes for granted. “See their morals, their code... It's a bad joke. Dropped at the first sign
of trouble.” This film again explores the deep link between The Joker and Batman. “You complete me.” This time to force Batman to confront
his own potential villainy and whether he’s truly as different
from the Joker as he, and we, like to believe. "To them you're just a freak. Like me!" This Joker is determined to prove
that everyone becomes a villain when they suffer trauma
that’s soul-crushing enough... “He wanted to prove that even someone
as good as you could fall.” “And he was right.” The Joker struck a chord by challenging viewers to question how any of us
would measure up when truly tested “At midnight I blow you all up. If, however, one of you presses the button, I'll let that boat live.” Ledger took inspiration from A Clockwork Orange’s Alex in his performance-- and he plays the Joker as simultaneously
unhinged and controlled, capable of complex schemes but also
a darkly impulsive wild card. He layers into the Joker a mystery:
are his different versions of his origin story part of a disarming strategy,
or evidence of his madness? “Now I’m always smiling.” Ledger won a, sadly posthumous,
Oscar for his efforts. Those daring enough follow Ledger
into the purple suit have had to grapple with the late actor’s shadow. Fellow Oscar winners Jared Leto
in Suicide Squad and Joaquin Phoenix in Joker
both take the darkness of Ledger’s Joker as a jumping-off point. “Is it just me, or is it getting
crazier out there?” And Ledger’s charisma (which turned the Joker into
a character just as compelling as Batman) opened up difficult questions
that these latest updates force us to confront. Does fan enjoyment of this character
translate into leading-man material? And when does it become
a problem to be enraptured by his magnetic evil? "See, I’m not a monster,
I’m just ahead of the curve.” Suicide Squad’s Joker is a
tattooed, club-dwelling tough guy who murders without thinking twice-- Todd Philips’ Joker pushes the limits
of bleakness and graphic violence “All I have are negative thoughts.” It fleshes out one of the Joker’s origin stories (also seen in The Killing Joke) which has him beginning as
a failed stand-up comic. And it takes inspiration from Martin Scorsese's depictions of urban alienation,
in classics like Taxi Driver and The King of Comedy,
another story about a wanna-be comedian going mad, which explored our
cultural obsession with fame. “The fact is he's tied up. And I'm the one who tied him. I know you think I'm joking,
but that's the only way I could break into show business." The movie even includes
the star of those movies, Robert DeNiro, this time playing
the famous talk show host character. Thus The Joker continues
further down the path The Dark Knight began--
but there’s a key difference. Nolan refused to clarify the Joker’s
origins as part of a strategic choice not to humanize him--
because the director said this would make him
“less threatening.” With Joker, some have pointed
to the risks that come with bestowing too much
humanity on a mass murderer. David Edelstein wrote for Vulture
that the movie "exalts its protagonist
and gives him the origin story of his dreams, in which killing is
a just — and artful — response to a malevolently indifferent society.” Indiewire’s David Ehrlich
even called the film a “toxic rallying cry for self-pitying incels.” Since the Joker’s debut
nearly 80 years ago, his constant evolution
reflects an ongoing conversation between comics, television,
video games, and movies. He epitomizes how a character
can take on a life of his own, beyond any one story, actor or medium. “If you could see inside
I’m really crying-- you might join me for a weep." Recently, the Joker has journeyed
so far into darkness, he’s become more monster
than madman. "No, we don't Daddy... I wanna keep him forever!" "No, no please, no! (Screams)" But there are also signs
the pendulum could swing back toward the comic interpretations
that used to prevail. In The LEGO Batman Movie,
Zach Galifianakis delivers a fun, funny interpretation that loses
none of the psychological complexity, portraying Joker’s madness as stemming
from neediness and the desire to be seen. "There is no 'us.' Batman and Joker are not a thing”. Even in his lightest interpretations, the Joker remains deeply unsettling. He challenges the basic assumptions
of human civility and decency which hold society together. He delights in his misdeeds because they make human beings
the butt of his jokes. And his humor costs people their lives,
their sanity, or just their sense that they understand how the world works-—
a sense that even the briefest brush with the Joker can turn upside down. *laughter* “(Singing) Send in the clown...” And use the code THETAKE
To get up to 91 percent off. 