Henry: Is that Für Elise? Umu: You're now reacting to the girl group Cherry Bullet in their 2020 song called 'Hands Up'. 'Hands Up' is meant to be a dance song The lyrics tell us to enjoy the party regardless of what others may think of us and this is the first release after 3 members left the group in December from last year The song is composed by Kim Do-hoon, Lee Sang-ho and the lyrics are written by AOA's Jimin (and 한성호, 김도훈(RBW), 이상호) Daniel: Oh my god. Für Elise Fiona: I love that. Right off the bat Daniel: I'll be expecting it to come back Aaron: This like almost something like sinister about it. Nick: Yeah
Aaron: Right? Nick: It's like...a kinda dark synth thing Owen: It's also.. ... Owen: It's a fifth up from the original, isn't it? Kevin: Why is it in F minor? Maybe it fits the singer's range more? Kevin: 'Cause Für Elise is in A minor James: I love that James: *Fur Elise transition* that's so funny! Oh my god~ Brianna: (hums) Brianna: Descending fifths!!!!! Henry: I like that Rising in action. Give us a big chorus Isaac: Uh that's so funny Kevin: There's some interesting rhythmic games going on. Like they're displacing the melodies so it starts at a different part of the measure Aaron: It's very like...mmm what is it? Bubbly sounding almost? It's not, that's not the right word Aaron: There's like sassiness to the beat. Nick: Yeah, it's like a little thicker than like a lot of, a lot of the bubbly pop songs But it's got a lot of the same stuff in them A: But also, if they're doing that type of articulation. That's kind of like *imitates sound* Type of thing Elizabeth: I feel like they used every opportunity they possibly could to put in the Für Elise like
Owen: It's just Elizabeth: It's every transitional moment. It's in there 
Owen: Yeah O: It's just Yeah, you're right, at every cadence they could possibly do Fiona: (claps) F: Rhythmically more accurate...active It's building Daniel: Hmm Henry: I don't know. That build-up and the halt withhold is not strong enough for me. I wish it were a bigger contrast I like how that matches. Hands up, stand up Cloud: Now they're standing, they're like alright (nods)
Henry: Text painting? Nick: Oooh N: They just went dark (Aaron:  this is interesting) for the bridge. A: I don't know who this, this girl is, but she has, I really like her voice. 
N: Yeah N: It's very like thick. 
A: Yeah, and different James: Okay, girl. Oh my god I'm in love Kevin: Okay! C: there it is, there it is!
Henry: Uhh it's clever, that's clever Kevin: Yeah, alright. This song totally redeemed itself James: It's so good
Brianna: It's still good (hums) A: Every time I hear that, I'm just like, I picture Beethoven like in trap glasses. just like Sitting there, with his piano like J: Okay J: That was insane
B: The beat and like their unique voices really like stood out individually and I feel like Everyone had something unique about them and that's what like made this video hit so hard. Along with just like how it just like Laid stayed in the beat like the way was just like Helping it and just like making it more exciting and not like working against it and I feel like that was the main thing It was just like me it was like J: Umm Uhh Everything about it was so good. Like the writing was impeccable. I could tell if they took out the vocals for this There was so much going on just like the pitched singing. There was some really interesting like percussion noises It was like boingg like kind of like crazy stuff and like after it hit like the pitch would like go out Yeah, they were just using some really really interesting sounds. The texture underneath and like the *sings* That was just like perfect. It was like so well written. Again, like writing melodies that are catchy that makes sense, that are simple and like the Für Elise reference like even though we're classical musicians I feel like most people would like hear that and know it 'cause Für Elise is like huge, you know And just to take that and like make it. It's just as perfect everything about it is like amazing Isaac: They're playing on the theme from Für Elise and quite nicely done with the execution of it It's just *sings Für Elise* because it's a childhood- I don't know, I guess most people play piano at one point So they take a little excerpt of it and then the expectation of a downbeat, It's not there, they leave it with emptiness, And then they slap it with a hard face and then they go into a dance. I thought it was really neat. Kevin: You gotta introduce the B section of Für Elise if you really want to go for it (chaos) I: No, I think if they did that, wow (K: Yeah right)
That would be a che-, that would be a nice song K: Yeah, it's the inside joke. Owen: Is there a counter on how many, how many times it's in there? Umu: No
O: Probably Umu: Do you wanna try? Elizabeth: Yeah U: Let's do it.
E: Let's do it. All right, we're gonna we're gonna count how many times it's in there. You ready? (O: Yeah) okay O: That's one (pauses video) Hmm E: It has to be like this
O: It has to be the full thing Okay
E: It has to be that yeah. 
O: All right, cool Cause they're like kinda same. Does that count? Does that count when they go, nah E: No, it has to be the whole thing. 
O: Yes Although, now that I'm listening to it, it's cool how much more pervasive the da da da da da is in everywhere ►► I like that sound *imitates synth* it's kind of like a What's that percussion tool that they do it where they hit like the hammer it's like dong~ O: You know I'm talking about? 
E: I do I just don't know what it's called. 
O: Yeah No, it tonicized it's sixth And then treats it as like a German, like an augmented sixth chord and that goes down to 5 and then back to 1 There's the- They didn't hit the F in the same last one E: It was like enough. I think it's 12 with the caveat that in the chorus, they have the singers going tarararara O: They get close, yeah
E: So it's like kind of a fragment of it. Okay. This may be controversial I'm not offended by the use of Für Elise in this. 
O: Mm-hmm.
E: I'm not Weirdly, I think it works O: I'm a little bit offended (laughs) Umu: Why? 
I think they overused it to the point of it being kitschy. Just having it there because people know and be like Hey I know that that's really and then they're like, oh it's there in this. I don't know. I think it's too much I... Fun to throw it in.
E: I actually disagree because when I was listening to it the first time I'm like, oh my god They used this like a hundred times and actually when you go through and count the amount of times, I was really surprised It was only twelve. and it kind of hits at the same time in every section like Kind of leading into the chorus, leading into the verse. It's kind of like the little look that ends each of the sections and somehow I think that because it's not so much like It's not like TVXQ when they did Mozart 40 where like the Mozart 40 is in the chorus and like they based the whole harmonic language around it and Like that was that was like, okay. But in this one, I feel it's definitely used I mean, I think it is definitely kind of like, ah haha You know what this is but also like because they've changed the instrumentation of it so much too because it's in the voice, Because it's not in the same key I think it doesn't come across so much as kitschy? I think? Because it's not like a direct orchestral transcription Or well, in this case. It's a piano. It's not like I'm thinking of the TVXQ one where it is an orchestra, and it's like not a direct piano like Somehow I think that they've managed to transform it in a way Uhh it's like a fun motive to catch on to and I think there's enough happening with the rest of the song and enough like interesting things happening In the verse and the harmonic language that I don't think they're trying to make that like the feature so much of every section and so it doesn't feel over added O: I like the chord progression that they did that when it slowed down it's like 1 then to I think minor 5 then back to 1 just to expand 1 and then it went like a 2-5-1 to the sixth by going to the flat 7 then to the minor then to the 3 then to the sixth And then went back to 5 and it back to 1 which was really cool I just thought it was nice to get that because we're hearing like 5 being tonicized and then the Major dominant the entire time dah dah dah dah dah dah dah Just like the entire time so having actually like a flat 7 and a A natural 4 that was nice as a break A: So what I liked about it is there was I used to listen to this old vinyl of the Tchaikovsky's piano concierto Except it was like the jazz arrangement of it and I thought it was so cool And so to me this whole like darararara like kind of like swing-y lai- I mean it's kind of the same rhythm, but they changed, you know, it's a little more laid-back It's not like some pianos being like "I'm trying to show the melodic motion of this phrase" And I thought that that was like cool.
N: Yeah, I think Beethoven works really well with things like this It reminds me of that one like disco Beethoven 5 thing A: We also reacted to a Moonlight Sonata one. I remember that N: It's like 70's disco-ish, A Fifth of Beethoven, that's what it's called.
A: A Fifth of Beethoven And it reminds me of this and I think Beethoven works especially well for like pop music Because there's motifs that are like so short and concise and memorable that like you can put them anywhere and you're like, okay It's Beethoven But like you have so much freedom to do your own thing with this and I think they really did that in a brilliant way to use his little Für Elise motif and just like a background way and then have their own vocals create like a really nice, rich, dark like timbre over it. umu: you like like ummm Fiona: I strangled a smurf? U: you know that girl in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory who turns into a blueberry?
F: yeah U: yeah that's who you look like 