Alright, so you’ve just turned on your preferred
digital device, and upon checking your email or social media account, you realize that,
like 110 million Americans each year, you’ve just been hacked. And I mean, HACKED. You’ve got an inbox full of suspicious emails,
your credit card has been compromised, and your twitter account is tweeting support for
a generic third-world dictator. YOU'VE BEEN PWNED. So, what happens now? Not to worry, I’m here to help! Fair warning: this is gonna take some time,
but it’s your personal security, so it’ll be worth it! You’re probably gonna need to devote a weekend
taking care of all this, so, if you HAVE to get hacked, do your best to make sure it happens
on a Friday! Here’s a list of things you’re gonna need
to do to get yourself back in action. #1: RESET YOUR PASSWORD First thing’s first, let’s regain control
of your account. Check all of your available devices to see
if you’re still logged in. If so, that’s great! Access your account settings and change your
password. Some online services will actually be kind
enough to tell you every single device your account is logged in from - so check this
(if it’s available), and log yourself out of any secondary devices (especially those
that seem suspicious.) Red flags include devices that aren’t in
your local area, or new devices you don’t recognize that might have accessed your account
recently. Now, maybe you’re completely locked out
of your account on all devices. That’s a tougher nut to crack, but not impossible. You're going to need to access whatever account
recovery options are available to you. In this video’s description, I’ve provided
some helpful links for the following services. Once you regain control of the hacked account,
let’s err on the side of caution and change the password of all the online accounts you
have. I know, I know, that’s gonna be a lot for
some of you, but keep in mind that nowadays, almost all of our online accounts are linked
in some way, shape or form, and one account being compromised can lead to the others being
cracked, as well. Your online presence is only as secure as
your weakest account password, so use these tips to make a strong replacement for each
of the accounts you’ll be changing. #2 CONTACT YOUR BANK Now that you’ve retaken control of your
accounts and locked the hacker out, let’s secure your cash, and assess any financial
damage. It may not seem like this is necessary, especially
if you haven't noticed any issues with your bank account, but ask yourself this: have
you at any time ever initiated a purchase through that hacked online account? Is that hacked account linked to any OTHER
online accounts you may have initiated an online purchase from? If yes, ERR ON THE SIDE OF CAUTION and contact
your bank. Banks don’t like their accounts being compromised,
so most will issue you a new card free of charge. Additional identity theft protection and peace
of mind is worth the low cost at most banking locations, so if you haven’t already, get
it. If you HAVE been the victim of financial theft
during this hack, immediately unlink any and all banking info from the compromised accounts
and make sure to document everything, as your bank will want as much information as possible
when you file a claim with them. The nuclear option always available if you’re
unsure the extent of the hack is to close the bank account you have and open a new one. If you’ve lost your money from a hack, it’s
likely that this step is going to take a long time to complete - so go through the rest
of our list while your bank works to get your money back. #3 SCAN YOUR DEVICE FOR VIRUSES/MALWARE Okay, your account’s been recovered and
your cash is safe. Let’s make sure your digital devices are
clean. Using antivirus and antimalware software,
do a thorough scan of your computer, tablet, phone, whatever you use, and clear out anything
that tests positive. Any suspicious files and apps need to immediately
be removed. There are plenty of options to choose from
when it comes to cybersecurity on your digital device, but the absolute WORST option is to
do nothing and hope you’re never compromised. You lock your doors at night, right? So you should lock up your computer and other
devices from potential intruders, as well. #4 REMOVE SENSITIVE DATA FROM YOUR DEVICE A funny thing happens when you get hacked:
suddenly you become acutely aware of all the personal and private data you’ve uploaded
that you’d rather not become public. Videos, images, texts…personal information
of a sensitive nature is extremely susceptible to hackers - so be safe and either erase these
or store them instead on some form of physical (offline) medium that can’t be accessed
by an account that has been compromised. Now, you likely can’t go without storing
SOME sensitive information on your device, but you CAN be smart about protecting what
you DO. #5 PERFORM A COMPLETE SECURITY AUDIT We’ve already discussed how interconnected
our various online accounts are. To make sure you’re safe from future attacks,
you need to sit down and conduct a thorough examination of every account you have, how
they’re linked, and then check for evidence of whether any of these have been compromised,
too. Deauthorize any associated apps that use your
compromised account login info. Again, most social media accounts will list
all the apps your account is linked to somewhere in the account information or settings. Erase all hacked posts, emails, messages,
whatever from the compromised devices, and monitor them for the next few months for further
issues. Add all questionable emails or messages you
may receive to your spam filter. Unsubscribe from ANYTHING you don’t remember
subscribing to, and when in doubt, block senders that contact you with suspicious links or
strange requests. #6: LET PEOPLE KNOW If you’ve been hacked, part of damage control
is making sure friends and others know what’s going on. Explain the reason behind strange or out of
character posts. Remember that identity thieves may attempt
to pose as you to try and solicit money out of people you have relationships with, so
make sure to contact these folks and warn them to be on the lookout. Sometimes sensitive data, whether personal
or business, becomes compromised. In these situations, it’s your responsibility
to let other parties that may be affected by the hack know what information has been
accessed, so THEY can use the safeguards THEY may have in place for protection. One of the worst things you can do in the
event of a hack is not communicate. It’s an embarrassing situation, sure, but
your forthrightness may spur someone ELSE to take preventative measures with their OWN
accounts, and you can help prevent another catastrophe from occurring. #7: UPGRADE YOUR SECURITY MEASURES Once you’ve finally recovered from a hack,
your job becomes making sure it doesn’t happen again. No doubt during this process you’ve realized
there are several safety measures you weren’t previously employing that you now need to. Take the time to properly organize your passwords,
and develop a schedule to keep them updated. Make a backup email and link it to your main
one to help in the event of future compromises. Turn on two-factor authentication, which STILL
remains the best extra layer of security for online accounts. If you find your old accounts are damaged
beyond repair, there’s no shame in starting over and creating a new account - but THIS
time, with the proper safety measures in place. Cybersecurity is one of those things most
of us really don't take very seriously, and that's a shame because, these days, our livelihood
is often entirely dependent upon whether or not our online accounts are protected. The reality is that taking the time to set
up the proper safeguards could prevent altogether a hack that, if severe, might take months
and months, even years to fully recover from. So, if you haven't already: TODAY, sit down
and make sure you've put your digital locks into place. then at checkout, use the promo code austinmcconnell Big thanks to Zeino who helped me out with
a lot of the motion graphics this week while I was sick. If you've got an animation gig, give him a
shot. And, thanks to my Patreon supporters, as well. 