What's up Greg, welcome back to another episode of I have had, a WEEK. Quite a week. I have been having some serious issues. I know a lot of you noticed this because I got a lot of tweets about it, But my video that I posted last week about the movie "The Lamp", uh, got taken down due to copyright. It's back up now luckily, so if you haven't seen it, you can go watch it, but, oh boy,  has this week been quite an experience dealing with copyright issues on YouTube. So, let me give you a little rundown of what happened last week with my video. So, I uploaded it, and pretty much the minute I uploaded it to YouTube, it got copyright claimed. I guess it was claimed, like, automatically by YouTube's... Robots. Or whatever goes and automatically claims things, because the video was still private at that point. Like, I had uploaded it, but I didn't publish it and make it public. So, nobody could see it and I'm pretty sure that, like, even YouTube human employees can't see it, but they do let their algorithms, or robots, watch it and check if there's any copyrighted material or any, like, super explicit material, so they can claim it or demonetize it or anything like that. So, like, the second I uploaded the video it got claimed right away, but the only thing that happened was my video got demonetized. I wasn't super worried about it at first, because I had a brand deal on that video, so I was gonna get paid for it anyway, so I was like, "Alright. Whatever." and I have to post it anyway for the brand deal, so I'll just let it be demonetized and I'll just post it like this. That'll be fine, right? Nothing bad could possibly go wrong. So the video performed really well. I guess a lot of people liked it and I think it was, like, my #1 video in, like, the first 24 hours of any video I've ever posted, which made me feel... pretty good. But that pretty good feeling was short-lived because the next morning when I woke up, I found out that my video had been blocked in several countries. Two countries to be exact, the US and Canada. Which according to YouTube is like 68% of my audience. So after I'd gotten that initial, like, 24 hours of views or whatever, 68% of the people who would ever watch that video again would not be able to see it. So... That's cool. Now, I know what you're thinking. "Well what happened?" "I thought the video was just demonetized?" "Why did it all of a sudden get blocked in two countries?" uh, I don't really know, I didn't even get a notification that it did get blocked, which is the weird thing, like, YouTube didn't even tell me. I searched through all of my emails and I looked on the, like, dashboard in the creator studio and I- there's nothing. The only way that I even knew to check is because Laura texted me that she couldn't find my video that morning, and a bunch of people tweeted me as well. And the weird thing was, since it was only blocked in the US and Canada, I was still getting, like, some views and I could see the views coming in on the app. And so I was like, "Wait is this video blocked or isn't it?" So I think what happened is even though, like, the robots found the video and they made it demonitized, the day that I posted it someone from the movie studio, or someone that works there, must have seen it and they were like, "Uh oh." "This don't make our movie look too good." and then they put a manual claim on it and set it to block in the US and Canada. Anyway, I'm sure a lot of you have heard about creators complaining about things like this before. I made a video complaining about something like this with the Billion Surprise Toys thing. (RIP Papa) In both that case and this case, my video falls under "Fair use", which Youtube, supposedly protects. Basically if your video is transformative in nature and, like, doesn't use all of the content, and or is educational or parody- I don't know what the exact terms are. I just know that commentary is protected under fair use, and I know that I'm allowed to post these types of videos on YouTube, um, because other people do it and so I should be able to too (logic). So I had two options the way I saw it. I could dispute the copyright claim, but fun fact! If you do that, YouTube just sends the dispute to the person who claimed it in the first place, meaning the movie studio, and they're like, "Hey, is this right?" And the movie studio is probably like, "Yeah, and also can I put a copyright strike on this person's channel, and if they get three of those their channel gets deleted?" and YouTube's like, "Sure! That makes sense!" It's like if you were in elementary school and a kid punched you in the face, and then told your teacher that you punched them in the face, (dammit timmy) and the teacher sends you to the principal's office to find out what will happen to you, and you get there and the principal is the kid that punched you in the face. But this time instead of punching you in the face again, he expels you. I did have one other option though... My legal options. I'm sure a lot of you guys remember the video I made about billions surprise toys, how they falsely copyright claimed one of my videos that was fair use, and somehow I got the video back up by just tweeting that I was reviewing my legal options, and they immediately accepted my dispute; they dropped the copyright claim. So I thought "I don't know. Maybe? Would that even work?" "There's no way that that would work twice, like, just because Billions Surprise Toys was afraid of me reviewing my legal options, that doesn't mean that this random movie studio would. Right?" Nope the videos back up. (laughs) That worked. It worked again. I don't know how. I don't know why me reviewing my legal options is, like, the scariest shit to companies that falsely claim my videos, but... I ain't mad. Like, not even two hours, I think after I tweeted that I was reviewing my legal options they released the copyright claim on my video, so... Long story short: never be afraid to review your legal options. Whoo! Let me tell you that was a relief! I was really stressed about that, but now the video is back up so you can go watch it. I guess the YouTube copyright system isn't so bad after all... Fuck. So this is the second of the issues that I faced this past week. Just as I thought I was in the clear, I had a successful review of my legal options, I thought everything was hunky-dory. I recieved about 15 copyright claims from... Warner? Or like, 15 different people? I don't know how music labels work. I guess it's all the same label, and different labels at the same time, who all owned this song. Basically, Warner, or whoever it was, were creating copyright claims on all of my videos that use the Mr. Sandman remix at the end of my video. You know, the song that I use at the end of... all my videos? You know, this one? Oh, what's that? You can't hear it? Yeah, that's 'cause I can't use it anymore. Here's the thing that really confuses me about that, is that I didn't even use the song that they say I was using. They said I used Mr. Sandman, which is a song from 1958, but I actually used a remix of that song, and I guess I don't know how copyright laws work in relation to, like, remixes and sampling. Maybe it's totally my fault for using it. I just-I guess I just kind of assumed that after, like, weeks and months and years of using this song at the end of every video, and never getting copyright claimed for it, that the song was fair game. So they basically went through and claimed, like, all of my videos that use that song. Well, not all of my videos. Just my most popular videos. So what I did, was go through all of my videos that use that song and replace that song at the end using Youtube's audio editor, which I guess is a tool that lets you replace audio in your videos with, like, the stock music that YouTube offers in their music library. So now at the end of all of my previous videos, instead of me talking with the Mr Sandman music in the background, it's just going to be stock music from YouTube, uh, with me talking totally muted. So that's great But luckily the YouTube audio editor that they make you use is ridiculously difficult to operate, so it only took, like, two full days. So in future videos going forward, I will have a new song at the end of all my videos. It's a song that I made, because apparently the only person that doesn't want a copyright claim all of my videos is me. So all of these issues have really got me thinking a lot about the YouTube copyright system, and, like, the entertainment industry's mindset towards copyright in the first place, And one thing I realized is that the YouTube copyright system seems to only ever fuck over the creators and never, like, the companies. It seems like YouTube always gives the big movie studio, or the big music label, the benefit of the doubt with these copyright claims, like, the second one of them files a copyright report, it takes down your video immediately or it demonetizes your video immediately. It doesn't check to make sure. It doesn't, like, send a message to you being like, "Hey, is this true?" It just does it immediately. The only time I've ever seen it not do that is months ago, when I made a video about Rebecca Zamolo. When I made that video I got an email from YouTube that said something along the lines of: "Hey, Rebecca Zamolo filed a copyright claim on your video because you used clips from her video in yours, but we're pretty sure that it's fair use so we're going to keep it up." And when I got that email I was like, "Holy shit! That's cool! YouTube actually is, like, acknowledging fair use." I thought it was pretty funny because it showed, like, Rebecca Zamolo's signature, that she tried to copyright claim my video. Like, it was actually her that clicked on it, but now looking back on it, that's the only time that's ever happened. The only time YouTube has ever given me the benefit of the doubt is when I was going up against another creator. And all of these other instances with large corporations, YouTube just gives them the benefit of the doubt and assumes that I'm in the wrong automatically. In the end, I don't really know if it's YouTube's fault that, like, the copyright system is like this. It might not be YouTube's fault. Maybe this is just how, like, the copyright laws work and they have to have it this way, otherwise, they'll get sued out the wazoo. Anyway, maybe these things will be solved, and maybe they won't, and maybe I'll just have to stop using copyrighted material in all of my videos, and just start roasting... videos that I make. How cool would that be? But when my videos get demonetized and taken down, It makes me all that much more appreciative that you guys are so supportive in all of my other endeavours, whether that be supporting me through my merch, or supporting the brands that sponsor this channel. So thank you guys for doing all those things, 'cause it really helps. But as far as fixing these copyright issues? I guess all I can really do is just... All right guys, well, I hope you enjoyed this video. If you're new here, make sure you subscribe and turn on my notifications to join Greg. Greg is my fanbase here on YouTube, but we're more than just a fanbase, We're a family! And an army. We are a clan of warriors, ready to attack at a moment's notice. And we're the fastest growing army on the internet. Bet you want to look that up, don't you? Well, guess what? Don't, please. If you want to get some merch, like this shirt, or any of the other items on my merch store, go to dannygonzalez.store I'll see you guys next time with a really interesting video where I turn into a crab. Bye! ♪ This video is over now ♪ (Over now) ♪ You'll find something else to watch ♪ (Or just watch this video again) ♪ I know we had a lot of fun ♪
(Or just watch this video again) ♪ I know we had a lot of fun ♪ (A lot of fun) ♪ but you can't stay on this end screen forever ♪ ♪(No)♪ ♪ This video is over now ♪ ♪(Over now)♪ ♪ So why are you still watching this? ♪ ♪(Do you not have anything else to do?)♪ ♪ I have lots of other videos v
(Do you not have anything else to do?)♪ ♪(that you can watch)♪ ♪ and I'm sure you'll enjoy them just as much ♪ ♪ Oh 
(I hope!)♪ ♪ Now I'm actually kinda concerned ♪ ♪ Did something horrible happen to you? ♪ ♪ Did you leave the room and forget you were watching YouTube? ♪ ♪ When you come back, I bet you're gonna be pretty confused ♪ ♪ I would be too ♪ ♪ Hey, are you subscribed to my channel?♪ ♪If you're not, you should totally subscribe to my channel ♪ ♪(Thanks)♪ ♪ And even if you're already subscribed to my channel ♪ ♪ You could tell a couple friends to go subscribe to my channel ♪ ♪ Because this video is over now ♪ ♪(Over now)♪ ♪ You'll find something else to watch ♪ ♪(Or just watch this video again)♪ ♪ I know we had a lot of fun 
(Or just watch this video again)♪ ♪ I know we had a lot of fun ♪ ♪But you can't say on this end screen forever, this video is over now, over now♪ ♪I'm amazed that you're still watching this, (I don't understand why♪ ♪It's almost like you're trying to prove a point♪ ♪(but I don't know what that point is)♪   Or you think there's gonna be something special at the end, but there's not 