(bongo music) - [Coyote] This is great! Ever since I was a little kid, I always wanted to go
on an African safari. Wow. Look at that. - [Mark] Alrighty, I
see something up ahead. - This is a big one guys. Keep your hands
inside the vehicles. They do have a tendency to nip. (soft drum music) Of all the places on our planet, that are considered bio-diverse, one of wildest to visit is
South Africa's Eastern Cape. Throughout the 19th century,
and well into the 20th, this province was heavily
used for stock farming. And as a result, settler's
began exterminating the surrounding African
wildlife to protect their families and livestock. This overly aggressive
hunting resulted in many indigenous animals
becoming greatly endangered. And in some cases,
pushed to extinction. Over the last few decades,
there has been a radical change in attitude toward
wildlife conservation. And private game reserves
have joined in the large scale reintroduction of iconic
species to this area. Today we are visiting the
renowned Kariega Game Reserve. This family owned and
operated establishment is the perfect South
African Safari destination. Spanning over 10,000
hectares, Kariega's landscape and topography is
arguably the mot beautiful of all the eastern
cape reserves. And is the perfect place
to safely get up close with a menagerie of
species from the comfort of an open-game drive vehicle. What's goin' on Coyote Pack? Right now we are on
location in South Africa, staying at the
Kariega Game Reserve. And what we're gonna
do today, is head out on a good old fashioned
South African safari. To do this, we're gonna
gear up in this land cruiser and Jo, our field guide,
is gonna drive us around. Mark's gonna be behind
the main camera, Mario's gonna be on
(mumbles) camera, getting some epic shots. And I'm gonna help
identify the species using this trusty field guide. So if you guys are ready,
let's head out there and see what sort of
animals we can find. (engine revving) This is actually really nice, traversing the
environment in a vehicle. We're used to being on foot but, to experience a
classic African safari you really have to drive. We're gonna be sticking to
the park roads today guys. While I'm trying to convince
Jo for us to go off-roading, these vehicles are specifically designed to stay on the trails. But that's okay
because she tells us we're going to see
all kinds of animals. - Look, look, look, what's that? - Got our first animal
right here guys. It's an ostrich! - [Man] And it's sittin' right
in the middle of the road. - And it is. See how close we
can get here guys. Very slow roll. Just kinda lookin'
at us like, uh. There she goes! Look at that speed. - [Mark] Get that shot Mario? - [Mario] I'm getting
her running away. And there's the male. I could see the male
in the background. Kaw kaw, kaw kaw. - [Coyote] Was that
an ostrich call? - Yep.
- That is a mating call. Yes.
- Sounds perfect. - [Coyote] (mumbles)
Bring 'em in guys. - [Mark] Jo, did
he nail the call? - Close, close, yeah. He just has to do
it a few more times. - And then they'll--
- Kaw, kaw! - [Mark] Come right
over to the vehicle? - Yeah.
- That's what I thought. - It's a Gallimimus. Actually it's an ostrich. Which is technically, a
modern day avian dinosaur. But it's amazing how much
the ostrich looks like the famous dinosaur
known as the Gallimimus, that we saw in the first
Jurassic Park movie. You guys remember that
scene when doctor Grant, Tim and Lex were walking
across the grasslands, and all of a sudden they
came flocking toward them? Unfortunately the
ostrich are flocking in that direction
and not toward us. But still, we got some
pretty epic B-roll shots. Well there we have it guys,
the first animal of the day ends up being the ostrich. All right, let's move on. (soft music) Oh! - [Mark] Alrighty,
I think we have something other than an ostrich. - [Coyote] There we go. - [Mark] What's that? - All right guys, this
is one of two things, either the blue wildebeest,
or the black wildebeest. Let me get out the
field guide here and, see if I can identify
which one it is. And according to this, those are blue wildebeests. - Correct.
- You can kinda see in the right sunlight,
they almost have a blueish tinge to their skin. You can see that they're
just munching through some of that underbrush,
enjoying this beautiful sunset. And none of them wanna actually show their faces for the camera. - [Mark] Got a
lot of butt shots. - [Coyote] Must be
protecting their young or, just are a little camera shot. Mario, how's your shot lookin'? - [Mario] It's good. I got the one
that's lookin' at me and then the rest of them
are showing me their butts. - [Coyote] Talk about
an epic set of horns. Hi guys! Things good? - [Mario] You scared them away. - [Mark] Let's check
it off the list. Why don't you pull the list out? - Got it. Here we go. Boop. There we go. - [Mark] That brings
our grand total to. - Two animals. We've only got about 31 to go. Here we go.
(giggling) - [Mark] All right, better
fire it up, keep goin'. (engine revving) All right, this
ride's kinda bumpy. - Yep. Everything here in
South Africa is bumpy. Every time we've
been in a vehicle, it just seems to
be a bumpy road. - [Mark] Alrighty, I
see something up ahead. - This is a big one guys! Keep your hands
inside the vehicles, they do have a tendency to nip. Wow! Look at that. We have a little female
impala, three of them, and three zebra. And here's a really
interesting fact that most people
probably didn't know, because it's often being asked. What color is a zebra, is
it black with white stripes, or is it white
with black stripes? And in fact the
zebra's skin is black. So the zebra is black
with white stripes. Pretty cool huh? - [Mark] Well we
put that to rest. Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! (dramatic music) (mumbles) He's fast. - That's why you keep your hands inside the vehicle at all times. Ooh look at that. That is a young impala
in training right there, dukin' it out with
a larger male. Likely his daddy. And what he's doing is
learning how to butt heads. That oftentimes
happens in the herd. They do this for a territorial
display of dominance. As you can see the dad's
now lickin' his sons face saying good job son. Okay we've got the impala,
check, and the zebra. That makes four animals
ladies and gentlemen. We are on a roll. This is great. Ever since I was a little
kid I always wanted to go on an African safari. Oh I see some
giraffe's over there! Wow look at that! Okay Mario, go ahead and
zoom in on the giraffe there. Look at that guys. Those are giraffe. I think it's one of everyone's
favorites out there watching. That's pretty
cool, look at that. It's a calf, milking
from her mother. Now maybe you didn't know
this but a female giraffe is a called a cow, a
male is called a bull and of course that would
mean that the juvenile is called a calf. That's a pretty good sized calf to be still drinking
from its mother. There they go. Disappearing into
the underbrush. Wow. And there are many giraffe
out here on the reserve. So we may see some
more while we're here. But Mario, did you get a
close shot of those ones? - [Mario] Yeah I did. - [Coyote] Nice. (soft music) As we traveled
deeper into the park, and continued our course
across the rolling grasslands, it was apparent that
our surroundings were alive with animals. All right guys, we've entered
the next section of the park. I do see some impala. You see those pretty frequently. Ooh it looks like we have a
skeleton or somethin' up here. (soft music) Well that animals doesn't
appear to be alive anymore. - [Mark] You sure? - [Man] Yeah that
one's mostly bones. - Look!
- Ooh right through there! Look at that. Let's pull up a little bit, we got another
animal that is alive. Look at you.
- What's that? - [Coyote] That is a, is that a kudo? No. - [Mario] I know what it is. - [Mark] Mario, what is that? - [Mario] It's a nyala. - [Mark] A nyala? Coyote it's a nyala. - [Man] And now it's gone. - [Jo] Or a nee-ola. - [Mark] We got the shot. - Whichever one.
- Got the shot? - Got the shot.
- That counts. - [Man] All right that
counts we saw a nyala. - Mario.
- Yeah. - We got monkey's up here.
- I see 'em too. - [Mark] Oh they're
comin' out to us. They're babies. - [Man] Those are vervet
monkey's right there. Check that out. The most common monkey species that you'll find in this area. We've got a whole little group
of 'em right there playin', in the setting, sunlight,
this is a great shot. Well how about that guys? Now we can cross
monkey's off of the list. - All right guys. We're rollin' up on
the rhino right now so we're gonna be super quiet. But this is pretty awesome. This is something we've
been waiting for all trip. All right, they're there. Right there. - Okay guys, just off the
side of the vehicle here we have five rhino's. And these are white rhino's and they are
absolutely incredible! So huge! These giant grazing animals
out here in the grasslands. Now white rhino's specifically
focus on eating grasses. It's almost like
a vacuum cleaner, the way they mow
across the grass, and just chomp,
chomp, chomp, chomp. All day long just
feasting on these grasses. Quite intimidating too. From this distance we're
about 50 feet away from 'em and they are huge! You've got a big bull, some
cows and a couple of calves. When you see rhino's like this, you just sit back
and absorb it all in. (soft music)
It's incredible to just watch them out there in the
setting sunlight grazing. That is pretty cool. Well, I would
definitely say that this was a successful safari. For me personal I would say, that the white rhino
is my favorite. How about you Mark? - Well since you
already picked the rhino I will go with giraffe. - [Man] And Mario,
how about you? - I like the wildebeest. - Yeah the wildebeest
were pretty cool huh? Well guys, if you get
the chance, come out here and visit Kariega Game Reserve. I promise you it is an
adventure you will never forget. I'm Coyote Peterson, be brave! Stay wild! We'll see ya on
the next location. (soft music) With the sun sinking
low in the sky, our return to the
lodge was inevitable. And I came to the realization
that it is impossible to cover Kariega's
expansive wilderness in a single safari. Yet despite the fact that
we needed to return home, in just a matter of hours, we saw an impressive
collection of species. Throughout the
eastern cape province, there are multiple
wildlife sanctuaries that aim to protect and
preserve the indigenous animals and their environments. The Kariega Game
Reserve is without question one of the best. And is renowned for being
home to the iconic big five, which includes lions,
elephants, rhino's, buffalo and leopards. If you would like
to go on a safari, or get involved with one of
their conservation initiatives, make sure to visit their website to book your adventure today. (soft music) Hey Coyote Pack, I have
some exciting news! I am proud to announce
that the crew and I are headed back on tour
with Brave Wilderness Live. Our next shows take
place in the mid west. Tickets can be purchased at
the Brave Wilderness website and these shows are
certain to sell out. So make sure that you
reserve your seats today. And don't forget, subscribe! So you can join me and the
crew on our next big adventure. (cheering) I'm Coyote Peterson! Be brave!
(cheering) 