Hey there freezers,
Trace here, and I have been thinking about
crazy too good to be true health claims. Like, that you can
freeze your fat cells and they'll just
disappear like that. I'm on that wedding
diet, so you know. Maybe you've seen
this around, it's being marketed as CoolSculpting,
but the technical term is cryolipolysis. It's just one of a
few non-invasive ways to remove fat cells or adipose
tissue from human bodies. And though it is FDA
approved, the Food and Drug Administration doesn't check
for effectiveness, just safety. So let's dig into this fat and
see if it's just a "cool party" or if the heat is on. Yes, I'm going to work
as many Mr. Freeze lines into this video as I can. [MUSIC PLAYING] I'm so happy you're
watching this channel. I love you and I know that
might feel like a lot right out of the gate, but I quit my job
almost exactly one year ago and I was not able to
announce where I was going. So I am just incredibly
delighted that you have made your way here. Thank you. I am at the YouTube space
right now shooting by myself for myself and I could not
have done it without you. So thanks for that, it really
means a lot, really, really. So let's kick some ice. Cryolipolysis literally
means freezing fat cells. And surprisingly, like,
really surprisingly, it seems to actually work. Like, seems though. Like, strong seems, real strong. Let me 'splain. Fat cells are
normal human cells. Fat, as we think of
it, is an adiposite, or a specialized
energy storage cell that evolved to store a droplet
of triglyceride, essentially. The droplet fills the
cell, pushing the contents to the edges of the
cell membrane, which is why they look like this. In the US and
elsewhere we've been trained to think fat equal bad,
but triglycerides are actually very common in the human body. You need fat to live. For example,
cholesterols are used to make hormones of vitamin D,
the liver actually produces it, but like anything, it's
all about moderation. Too much fat in the body
can be a bad thing causing all sorts of health
problems, which I don't think we have to
get into because you know, you've heard it all before. Fascinatingly, we
don't 100% know why fat cells form
the way they do, we just know that they form. We also know that
once they do they don't tend to go, away
especially in people who are already overweight. Instead, excess fat in the
diet can cause those droplets inside the cell to grow, swell,
and when weight loss occurs, the droplets just shrink. But the cell is still
there, it just stays. And the body is actually
loathe to create new fat cells. Instead, allowing
those gluttonous, older, unhealthy fat cells
to keep sticking around. Just grows and grows and
never really disappears, which is bad. Fascinating sidebar, a
2018 study in ETH Zurich supported this and they found
an AREG, an Adipose Regulatory Cell, which might help us
grow new fat cells, which you wouldn't think
you'd want to do but you actually
do because it can help you carry your fat better
and make you healthier somehow. Cool. I don't know, it's awesome,
and love handles sidebar. So back to our little
fat cell problem. If we can get that cell
out of there, like kill it, then we can get rid of
the triglyceride inside and reduce our
bodies fat content. Or that's the hypothesis. One way to do this
is by freezing them. Fat cells, for some reason,
are susceptible to cold. We've actually known
about this since the turn of the last century,
even earlier if you count knowing hypothermia,
can cause fat cells to die. But now, cryolipolysis
has a fancy new name and is marketed as a way
to reduce your waistline. The thing is, the big 2009 paper
supporting cryo, that I almost cited in this video, was funded
by the company who markets it as a way to reduce
your waistline. I couldn't find a cleared
video to show you the process, but I can explain why it works. More or less, the adipose
cells near the skin are cooled to freezing or below,
like negative 5 or 10 Celsius. This cooling allegedly
causes the cells to commit suicide, called
cellular apoptosis. Then, the macrophages, a type
of white blood cell, comes in, eats the dead cells,
and everything is chill. But to be honest, this
shouldn't be that shocking. You know, my love handles
do tend to get cold easily, but I never connected
that to cell death. Tonight's forecast,
a freeze is coming. Cells are frozen all
the time for science. The ones you're most
likely familiar with are the zygotes, the
sperm and egg cells. But you can freeze
many different samples for later study. And if you do it right, they
can last at negative 200 Celsius for centuries. But that's if you want to
have them stop in their tracks without killing them. If you want to
actually kill them, you can just freeze
them a little bit. There is a couple
of catches to this though, it's only FDA
approved for love handles, back fat, and tummy fat. Sometimes the procedure
can cause bruising or pain, loss of sensation in the area. It also can take weeks or
months for the fat cells to be cleaned up and reduced. There's also localized
inflammation, but essentially, that's it. This isn't the only method
of removing excess fat. You can also use ultrasound
to disrupt the cell membranes and heat them,
killing the cells. The problem is, you can affect
surrounding tissues that way. Specialists also can use
high frequency radio waves to generate heat in cells. They can even use lasers
because, of course you can. What can't lasers do? I mean, everything freezes, but
also everything burns and pops, so I guess, sure, why not? I thought this was
nuts, but the research says the lasers can create
"transient pores," which cause the lipids to
leak out of the cell, according to one paper. It all seems so unbelievable,
more research is definitely needed, but everyone thinks
that this is pretty promising. According to the
website of the American Society for
Dermatological Surgery, cryolipolysis has no recovery
time, which is also crazy, but there are side
effects, if rare. A study in the Aesthetic
Surgery Journal looked at almost
1,500 people and found 12 people, not 12%, 12
people had complications. But 12 people out of 1,500? The main question that I have
is how does this cooling thing work? And that is the kicker because
scientists are all like-- even though a 2015 lit review
published in the journal Plastic and Reconstructive
Surgery of 19 other studies found 28% fat
reduction and another in the Aesthetic
Surgery Journal of 16 studies and a 20% reduction. They don't know what
exactly is happening. They don't know the
mechanism of action. They don't seem to know why
the fat cells hate to freeze, but there are studies
looking into it. One titled literally "Mechanisms
Underlying Tissue Cryotherapy to Combat Obesity,"
determined the cells didn't seem to die
at all, but instead, because of the cold,
expended energy causing them to shrink like they
had to work out to stay warm, but on the cellular level. Something called
cold-induced thermogenesis, which is a wicked name, but,
again, more research is needed. But in all of my
research, the worst thing was this one 2014 study. It was a case study that seemed
to indicate paradoxical adipose hyperplasia as a possibility. But only 1.005% of people
could have this happen. It was just one guy. I was ready to
debunk this thing, but I guess I was
just assuming things. Remember, kids, be skeptical
but accept the evidence when presented. You're not sending
me to the cooler. What did you think of this? Have you tried this stuff? Do you think it's real? I'm still really
skeptical, but dang, tell me your thoughts
in the comments and thank you so much for
watching Uno Dos of Trace. You are phat. p-h-a-t, phat. You know, it's like, cool
for older millennials. Doesn't matter,
thanks for watching. I am Trace, I hope
you learned something. Please subscribe. Come back soon and I'll
see you in the future. 