Hi, this is David from MinuteEarth. In early May of 2019, the Chicago sewer system
ejected over a million gallons of a slurry of poop and toxic chemicals into the Chicago
River and out into Lake Michigan. Needless to say, this wasn’t great for the
creatures that live in the lake, or the people who live by the lake - aka the citizens of
Chicago. And it wasn’t an isolated incident; even
now, cities around the world periodically spew out ever-larger rivers of, well, toxic
poop water - a phenomenon that is not only gross, but that also pollutes water supplies,
causes illness and infections, closes beaches, and kills off plants and animals. To understand why these sewage tsunamis are
increasing, we have to understand what’s causing them in the first place. Let’s back up. Cities like Chicago first started installing
a fancy new kind of sewer system at the end of the 1800s. It made it easier to remove a bunch of different
kinds of waste all in one go, combining poop water from fancy new indoor plumbing with
storm runoff that had picked up toxic chemicals from fancy new cars that started appearing
on fancy new roads and sending everything away from the city and into nearby waterways. But when we realized dumping massive amounts
of sewage into nearby lakes & rivers wasn’t a great idea, the cities soon added processing
plants to clean the wastewater before it was released. The sewers were able to handle the combined
flows without a problem - even as populations grew and there were more butts in the seats. But unexpected megastorms could occasionally
overwhelm the plant capacity, causing raw sewage to again overflow into nearby waterways. And nowadays - mostly because of climate change
- megastorms are happening much more frequently, and are mega-er than ever. And because cities have continued to build
an increasingly widespread web of concrete and pavement, less of that megastorm water
can soak into the ground and more of it gets funneled into the sewers. As urbanization continues and storms get worse,
combined sewer systems are overflowing more and more. To deal with the sewer overflows, you could
install a new sewer system that separates the storm runoff from the poop water. During a megastorm, that would give you the
option of letting the slightly toxic storm runoff flow into the waterway while preventing
the more toxic poop water from doing the same thing. But while that works if you're building a
city from scratch, digging up and replacing the sewer pipes underneath all the already
affected cities would be really expensive and inconvenient. So many of the affected cities are trying
to tackle the problem in other ways: Some are trying to divert megastorm runoff into
nearby waterways before it gets combined with the poopwater. Some are investing in parks and roof gardens
in hopes of better soaking up those megastorm rains before they get to the sewers. And Chicago is digging a 10 billion gallon
in-case-of-poopmergency overflow tank. Combined sewers have helped cause this problem,
here’s hoping these combined solutions can help head off the coming poopocalypse. 