- From what causes volcanic lightning to how
strong a human can be, we answer several of your most hungering questions about life. - Hey, how’s it going folks? I’m Pringle the One and I’m here to deliver
the truth right into your beautiful brains. - Behold mortals! I am Nixxiom! And today I have been tasked by Melissa to
read out the answers to your queries! … Uh - one second. - *
- Ok! I’m good to go! - *
- I have the utmost faith in you, big guy. - *
- Pssst - Hey - You sure about this, Melissa? - Listen, we just needed to get him off the
streets, he keeps challenging people to trial by combat! would happen if the whole internet did a factory
reset? - Oh man, I’ve made so many good friends
on the internet, I’d hate it if they were all deleted! - That would never happen, the eternal portal
wizards would never allow it. They maintain the internet and ensure that
every message sent by a mortal is delivered. - Oh - wow! Nixxiom… do you think *I* could ever become
an eternal portal wizard? - Ha! It takes centuries of training! And besides - You don’t look like a wizard
to me. - *
- Knock that off! If the internet was completely wiped and restarted,
it would probably take some time for users and companies to recover. Businesses would suffer, deliveries and packages
would be lost, communication across the globe would be hindered and it’s very likely the
stock market would be in chaos. 9 – BlackDragonJake What causes volcanic
lightning? - Volcanic lightning is what you get when
you throw a coin into a volcano and then it erupts. I once knew a guy that did just that and now
- well - there’s not much left of him. - Don’t be foolish! Volcanic lightning is a byproduct of the great
struggle between the gods of the sky and earth as they battle for-
- * - STAY ON SCRIPT! - Ok - fine! I’ll read your propaganda... Particles in our atmosphere have either a
positive or a negative charge. When these particles separate, electricity
flows between them. The exact cause of volcanic lightning is still
in debate, but it is believed that the charged particles responsible for it come from the
material that the erupting volcano ejects into the atmosphere, like ash clouds. 8 – PlanetDolanFan What do clouds feel like? - Have you ever touched fairy floss? Clouds feel pretty much the same, only wetter. - Fairy… what? I don’t eat anything made by a fairy, they’re
nefarious tricksters! - No no, Nixxiom. I mean the fluffy pink stuff. Cotton candy. - Candy is not made from cotton! Clouds are made up of tiny droplets of water
or ice crystals that cling to dust particles in the atmosphere. But what do they feel like? The disappointing answer is: not much. If you have ever walked through some fog then
you know what a cloud feels like. They are nice to look at though. Look! That one looks like a smiling face! - *
- Lovely. 7 – planet_worth_nothing What are EXE and
MP3 files and what do they do? - EXE stands for a file that’s REALLY excited
to be clicked on! I like to search around the internet and download
every EXE I can find. Here, I’ll boot one up for you! - * An EXE is an executable file, which means
once it’s opened it causes the operating system of your computer to run a program. Which is why you should be careful when you
receive one attached to an email, RIGHT PRINGLE?! - *
- How do I run a virus scan on this? An MP3 is an audio file format that is often
used to compress music tracks. It does this by stripping away the additional
sounds in a song that our ears cannot hear, which reduces the size of the file. 6 – I_Love_Winners Why don't we ever see
freckles form? Do they just appear out of nowhere or gradually? - If you notice that you have a new freckle,
it means you have been visited by the spirit of lady luck. Good fortune and riches will soon come to
you! - If you have freckles it means you’re sick! Seek a plague doctor immediately! - Oh that’s not true, look! - *
- * - GET AWAY FROM ME, WRETCH! - Ahhhh I’m fine, no need to panic dude. - *
- Not a step closer you abomination! Freckles contain a pigment called melanin,
which itself is created by skin cells  called melanocytes. Freckles form when your skin is exposed to
sunlight, the ultraviolet radiation of the Sun’s rays cause the melanocytes to produce
more melanin, which in turn causes more freckles to form. 5 – planet_worth_nothing What is the largest
known moon? - Hold on, I’ll check. - *
- Oh whoops! - *
- Stop rearranging the cosmos! PUT THAT DOWN! The largest moon that we know of orbits the
planet Jupiter in our solar system and is named Ganymede. It has a diameter of 5,262 kilometers and
is larger than the planet Mercury, in fact it would be considered a planet too if it
orbited the Sun. 4 – Chantalle Bellemare Why do we see a
lot of pigeons in cities? - *
- Well Pigeons need to work too, they have a tough job picking up all those seeds that
people leave lying around. Who else is going to do it? I really respect all the pigeons working their
9 till 5 seed pecking jobs. They’re doing fine work. Fine work. The pigeons that you see in cities are largely
descended from the Rock Dove, which still nest near rocky cliffs and coastlines. Over time they cross bred with birds more
inclined to live near humans but kept their preference for tall rocky structures. This made cities very appealing to pigeons,
along with the abundance of people willing to feed them. - *
- Get off of me you flying rats, I’m not a statue! 3 – Falguni Joshi Raval What was the first
chocolate company? - Chocolate? Did somebody mention chocolate? Man I love the stuff. One of my favourite holidays is Easter… But I don’t really like when it’s over,
I always seem to get a stomach ache. - *
- Urrruuuuuuuurghhhh… - Urrgghhh, my stomach…. - *
- Disgusting. Chocolate was originally consumed as a bitter
drink by ancient Mesoamericans. Once the Spanish arrived and began transporting
chocolate to Europe it was sweetened with cane sugar and cinnamon. The French company Chocolaterie Lombart, created
in 1760, claim to be the first chocolate company in France. However, it was the British company J.S. Fry & Sons that created the first solid chocolate
bar in 1847. 2 – Buchi2005 When were the first houses
built? - *
- When I was young and a lot smaller, my first house was great! It was shiny and it had some fizzy liquid
in it that tasted great! Whoever built that place should be on TV. I wonder what happened to it? - *
- A-ha! Take that, metal can! One of the World’s first towns was Catal
Huyuk, built in what is now the country of Turkey in roughly 6,500 BC. The houses of Catal Huyuk were densely built,
usually touching each other and were made from mud bricks. They also lacked doors or windows so people
had to enter them through hatches in the roofs. 1 – PUDYTAT- Is there a limit to how strong
a human can be? - You must always strive to be stronger and
challenge others! PRINGLE! I challenge you, my friend, to a test of strength! An armwrestling match, right here, right now. - Err - You sure about that? I don’t want to hurt you. - Ha! I fear no pain! Perhaps you are afraid of my RAW POWER? - *
- Mmmm - ooooooh yeaaah. - Ooooooookay, if you insist. - *
- Ok! 3-2-1 go! - *
- *Need several sounds of Nixxiom struggling to move Pringle’s arm*
- * - Erm - I can see you two are busy so I’ll
read out the last answer for you. It is possible that the human race is already
near its maximum potential for strength. Over time, weightlifting records have slowly
crept up but are now beginning to plateau. This could be in part due to the body’s
natural mechanism that stop us from hurting ourselves, something that weightlifters have
to overcome. Recently however, Icelandic strongman Hafthor
Bjornsson broke the Elephant Bar deadlift world record, successfully lifting 472kg or
1,041 pounds. - *
- You can - grrrr- give up any time - grrr - you want! Grrrrrrrr! - *
- Oh man! Are you ok Nixxiom? - *
- A good match, my friend. But know that I went easy on you. - Do you need some help getting out of that
hole? 