We’ve all been there. You’ve just finished
a delicious snack, empty container in hand, and you have to make a decision: Does this
belong in the trash can or recycling bin? Throw it away, and it’s doomed to sit in
a landfill for the next 500 or so years. Or throw it in the recycling bin, and it happily
makes its way to a local recycling plant where magic happens and it’s repurposed into more
happy containers that will make other people happy one day. You’ve saved the world from another piece
of trash. Cue the sunshine, the rainbows, and the smiling bunnies. If everyone would
just put more in the recycling bin instead of the trash can, the world would be a better
place. Except that’s not exactly true. By throwing
this in the recycling bin, you’ve actually created more trash. You’ve also made it
harder to recycle the stuff that can be saved, and basically demonstrated that recycling
is broken. At least the way we do it today. Luckily, we can fix it. [OPEN] Hey smart people, Joe here. Why do we recycle? Because it’s one of the
best ways for you to have a direct impact on the environment. It means taking fewer
raw materials out of the earth, less energy and pollution to make new stuff, and most
of all, less trash. It may seem like recycling is a product of
modern environmental movements, but people have been recycling for as long as they’ve
been making stuff. Before the industrial revolution, most goods and raw materials were hard to
come by, so people recycled as much as they could at home or at work, everything from
scrap metal to old clothes. But unlike the Olden Dayes, we need recycling
today because we make so much stuff. The economic boom after WWII created a tidal wave of quick
and cheap goods. And suddenly it made more economic sense to throw many old items away
and just buy new ones. Unfortunately, if the movie Wall-E taught us one thing, it’s with
a growing population and limited resources, we can’t continue that cycle forever. The good news is we’re recycling a bigger
fraction of our waste every year. In 2017, Americans recycled 35% of our waste, and EU
countries recycled 46% of theirs. Back in 1960, 94% of solid waste generated
in the US ended up in landfills. But in 2017, it was just 52%.
And EU countries do even better, only sending a quarter of their solid waste to landfills
today. But even though we’re recycling more, we’re
making so much waste these days that Americans are still throwing away more total tons of
waste than we used to. So what can we do? The reason so many people recycle today is
thanks to “single stream recycling”. It’s easy: You put everything in one bin and send
it off for someone else to figure out. In fact, around ⅔ of people say they wouldn’t
recycle at all if it wasn’t so easy. But in order for that to work, someone has
to sort all this, into this. Then it goes from a sorting facility, it’s put together
with other stuff of that kind, and is sold by the ton in a global market, often shipped
overseas, to be reprocessed back into raw materials, which are then sold to manufacturers
who make new stuff out of it. We’re actually pretty good at recycling
materials like aluminum or glass. They can often be recycled back into the same stuff
you started with. But many materials can really only be recycled into lower value products.
That’s called “downcycling”. Paper and plastic are the real troublemakers here, because
pretty quickly you just can’t downcycle a material any further. It’s really convenient to be able to get
rid of all this stuff in one environmentally friendly-colored bin, right? But single stream
recycling has made things SO easy, if people aren’t a hundred percent sure if something
can actually be recycled, they just throw it in the bin anyway. It’s called “aspirational
recycling” or “wishcycling”. I’m definitely guilty of doing this and I bet you are too. And as a result, according to the National
Waste and Recycling Association, about 25 percent of the stuff we try to recycle is
so contaminated it just goes straight to the landfill. That contamination comes in the
form of things that can’t be recycled, like plastic bags, which just clog up the machines
that sort this stuff. Yeah, you thought you were being nice and tidy by putting your recycling
in a bag, but what you actually did was get that whole bag thrown away. Or diapers. People are actually trying to
recycle diapers. Used ones. That is just wrong on so many levels. But a lot of the contamination comes from
things that technically can be recycled, if they weren’t so dirty. And our food container
is a perfect example here. Waste plastic like this gets ground up into tiny pieces and sold
by the ton. But when I throw this in the recycling bin covered in food residue (or with foil
lid still on) it all gets ground up together. That food and metal contamination can ruin
the whole batch, because before this plastic can be repurposed into something new, it has
to be a certain purity, and in many cases it’s so expensive to clean and purify it
that the recycling companies can’t make money on it, and it just ends up being thrown
away. Greasy pizza boxes? Contaminated garbage. Paper drink cups? They’ve actually got a
thin plastic or wax lining that most recyclers can’t separate out, so they get thrown away
most of the time too. Which really makes you think… Where was I? Oh yeah. Modern recycling became
so widespread because countries like China were there to buy our reusable trash. But
trying to recycle contaminated paper and plastic was creating a whole new environmental problem
in these countries, and in 2018 China said “nope!” and they banned their recyclers
from buying our contaminated plastic and paper. And other countries like Malaysia have since
followed their lead. China was the biggest buyer of the world’s
reusable trash, so this has completely messed up the economics of recycling across Europe
and the US. Now more stuff is going from recycling centers straight into landfills and some cities
have even stopped recycling altogether. The very thing that makes single stream recycling
so successful–how easy it is for us–has become its Achilles heel, because we’ve
made our recycling so dirty that it just became more trash. So how do we fix it? Well, it’s on us. The
most important thing we can do is only recycle what can actually be recycled. Plastic is pretty confusing stuff. Not only
because it used to be oil, but now it’s solid, and you can carry milk in it… (aside:
I’ll figure that out someday) but also because there’s more than one type of plastic. Luckily,
each type is labeled with a “resin identification code” that helps you figure out what to
do with it. Numbers 1, 2 and 5 have a pretty good market
in the U.S. for recycling. Water and soda bottles, milk jugs, laundry detergent, yogurt
cups and stuff like that are mostly made of these plastics. But they’re only recyclable
if they’re clean! You don’t need to wash it with the dishes, just rinse out any food,
and remove any labels or foil and these are good to go Numbers 4, 6 and 7 are things like squeezable
bottles, plastic bags, and many of the disposable plates and cups and takeout containers you
get. These items are typically sent to a landfill and not recycled at all. Number 3 is plastic like PVC pipes, and this
is just not recycled. I don’t know why you’d have a bunch of pipes around unless you’re
a plumber, but just don’t put any PVC in your recycling! Glass and aluminum? Give ‘em a rinse and
these are pretty much good to go. But try not to break your glass if you can help it. As for paper? Used napkins or greasy cardboard
like pizza boxes usually can’t be recycled. But they can be composted, if that’s available
where you live. Paper cups and to-go containers with those plastic linings? More and more
places are starting to recycle these using new technology, but before you put them in
the bin, check to see what the guidelines are where you live. In fact, the best thing you can do in general
is to learn what can be recycled where YOU live. There’s no perfect set of rules I
can give you, because the rules are different everywhere. So go to the website of your local
recycler, or even call them on the phone if talking to actual humans is your thing, and
find out. You can also look for special recycling drop-off locations for odd items like batteries
or styrofoam. And if you’re ever in doubt if something
can be recycled, don’t put it in the recycling bin. I know it feels weird, but sometimes
you really are better off just throwing it away than contaminating a whole truck-worth
of recycling with six months worth of plastic bags you have stashed under the kitchen sink.
I know that’s where you’re hiding them. Most of us have a constant stream of packaged
goods coming into our lives, designed to be used one time, and thrown away. Perhaps the
best thing you can do is know what you can recycle before you buy stuff, and don’t
buy stuff that you can’t recycle. The recycling symbol is one of the most recognizable
logos ever created. It was designed in 1970 to honor the very first Earth Day. The three
arrows in this environmental Möbius strip are now taken to represent three words: Reduce,
Re-use, and Recycle. Today, we tend to focus mostly on the third
one: Recycle. But since that first Earth Day, recycling was always intended to be just one
part of this three-step process. To truly get rid of waste, and to keep our environment
as clean as we can, recycling just isn’t enough on its own. We also have to reduce the amount of waste
we create in the first place, by either buying items with less packaging, or asking manufacturers
to consider waste when they design their packages and products. And we should reuse whatever we can too. [beat]
Well, maybe not… whatever we can. Recycling alone can’t solve our waste problem.
And I want to put something into perspective to prove that to you. Since plastic was invented,
8.3 billion metric tons of new plastics have been produced. And 6.3 billion metric tons
of plastic waste has been generated. Only 9% of that has been recycled, ever. While
79% of it has piled up in landfills or the environment.
According to researchers, 4 to 12 million metric tons of plastic waste entered oceans
in 2010 alone. And by 2050, there will be 12 billion metric tons of plastic in landfills.
That amount is 35,000 times as massive as the Empire State Building. And there’s no recycling system or technology
imaginable that can get us out from under all that weight. But we can choose to stop
burying ourselves. Stay curious. 