(clears throat) - I am digging my set up,
if I may say so. (laughs) It's currently the beginning
of April, and so far this year, I have spent two weeks in Australia, campervanned in Iceland in
winter, doing the entire Ring Road and the Snaefellsnes Peninsula. Went snowboarding in France. I think I might have
fractured my tailbone, because sitting still hurts
and it's two months ago. Went to Belgium. Had a two week holiday
with my mum in Latvia. Fell in love with Estonia. Took a day ferry to Helsinki, Finland. Went to Lithuania. Did a photography
experience tour in Iceland, my first one ever. Back to Dinka, as it's currently my base, because I'm building an online course. More information on that soon. Spent a week with my family in Poland. Two days ago I booked a
trip to Bali for 10 days. And after Bali, I predict
I'll be solo caravanning on the east coast of Australia. It's pretty good. We live in the best time possible for accessibility of the world. Flights are incredibly cheap,
there's endless information on how to travel depending
on your interests, your budget, and so forth. Perfect photo destinations
are revealed to you within one click of an Instagram search. The world is very open,
but you're probably sitting on the other side of this
video thinking, "But how? "You're an influencer, it
must be super easy for you. "I could never do this,
is this even possible?" Well, believe it or not, I wasn't always a travel influencer. I actually started travelling
the world by myself, solo, at the age of 18, and
basically every single year since I was 18, I've taken
two to three months off, traveled the world. No one paid me for it, I
did it out of my own money. So, in this video, I'm
going to be covering how I used to travel the world
before I was an influencer. And then how I get paid as
an influencer these days. to save 10% off your first
purchase of a domain or website. How to travel the world
when you are working in probably, a crappy job. It is so much easier than you think. It's even easier these days, it was harder when I was doing it. I did this by working incredibly
hard for a period of time, and then taking huge chunks of time off. I would also save extra
money by avoiding buying the latest and greatest
things, or the fast fashion that I didn't need, or
even getting a haircut. I was a tight ass. I wanted to make sure that I was gonna be on that plane as soon as possible. And if I had to look
bad for awhile, I mean, I was working in a bar,
so I really didn't mind. Unless you're working for tips, then maybe a haircut is
a good idea. (laughs) Also, because I'm Australian, I had to really commit to travel, because taking a one week
trip as an Australian just didn't make sense, because we're very isolated out there. Flights out of Australia are expensive. ♪ All by myself ♪ But if you don't live in
Australia, or in an isolated place, it's probably way easier for
you to just take a week here, a week there, 'cause I'd
say that cheaps (laughs) cheaps, I'd say that cheap flights
are very accessible to you. Just go to momondo.com,
and see where it takes you. Type in your local airport,
and then tour everywhere, and see what the cheapest
flights come up as. I also ensured that the jobs
I was choosing were very easy for me to quit, or put on
hold for a little while. And these are the jobs that I chose. (playful music) - Dan?
- Oh, hi! - Hi, thanks for the invite. - Oh, my pleasure, enjoy. (bright music) - I was a bartender for quite a long time, and I absolutely love this strategy, because it is so easy for you
to save a good chunk of money, and then go abroad, come back,
and then get your job back. Two notes on that. You have to work extremely hard,
so that when you come back, it's really easy for your
boss to take you back. And if there's a danger that
if they might not take you back at that place, make sure
you get a reference. Actually, always get a
reference, because it's always easier for you to get a future
job in a different place. When I was bartending, I
also started the process of learning how to freelance work. So, with my photography,
with my videography, camp out your skills that you have. Make that money, honey. Freelance is gonna be your best friend. And lastly, this is the greatest thing, when I was bartending, I learnt the art of making money online. You are the only one responsible
for learning this skill, and honestly, if you are
planning on going into a nine to five normal job, try to think differently about that, because that is a very
old school way of working, and you're not a slave,
you're a human being. Ahem, unless you like your job, then continue on your merry way. And also these results are
mine, this is just examples, I'm not promising anyone anything. Just thought I'd mention. I took the full responsibility of learning how to make money online. I wanted to make sure that I
was working on my own terms. If you wanna become a lawyer,
a doctor, or so forth, obviously, it's a little bit harder, because you're gonna have to
have a full time, steady job. But for me, that was not
really of interest to me. I just wanted to make sure
that I had my own time, I could do whatever I
want, whenever I wanted, and I could still be making
money even when I was sleeping. This was a very long
process for me to master how to make money online, so I'm not even gonna go into
it, but start learning now. The sooner the better.
Just give it some time. While you're bartending, you
can still be take time off and still be learning these
skills, and then perfect it. And one day, even if it
takes you to 25 or 30, at least after 30, the world is yours. You never have to get a job again. That's a lot of time that
you have to live life exactly how you want to be living. Another way to afford to
travel when you are working in a bar, for example,
is you go volunteering. When I was 18, bla bla bla. When I was 18, I worked as a
volunteer in Canada for a year. But I also had to prepay this institution that I was volunteering
with $6.000. (laughs) Luckily, times have changed, and now you can just go
to these kind of websites, and you can have accommodation
and everything for free. And you don't have to pay a fee. See, this is how much times
have changed already. (laughs) Volunteering is genius,
because during your free time, make the most of it, and go
and take beautiful photos, video yourself in these destinations, if you wanna become a travel influencer. Talk about the area you are in, talk about your volunteering journey, inspire others to do
exactly what you are doing. This is another way of how you can learn to make money online. How to become a public figure. This is all part of the process. Once you're on your adventure,
you just have to make sure that the money lasts as long as possible. So, I would take three months off, but I wasn't living
extravagantly at all. (laughs) I was a minimalist, so I took
very little baggage with me, meaning that I also
couldn't buy extra things when I was overseas, because
it wouldn't fit in my bag. Cheap accommodation, cheap
transport, cheap food. There are so many hacks to travel cheap. When you're younger, traveling
on the cheap is so much fun, because it's all about
meeting people, exploring, the world is so exciting,
everywhere you look, it's just mmm! It's awesome. So doing travel extremely cheap is not something to shy away from. It's really fun. Now, would I want to stay
in hostels all the time, and eat two minute noodles all the time? No! But that's just because I'm
in a different life stage. Ain't nothing wrong with that, I like a little bit of luxury. You know what I'm saying' To summarize though, if
you're brand new to travel, and you don't know how to do this, and you want to do this
more, it's a skill. I can now almost travel
with my eyes closed. It's so second nature to me. But when you're first
learning, it is overwhelming, and you're gonna get really. Emotions, scared, everything. Everything's gonna run through your mind, you're gonna think
you're not able to do it. It's so much easier than you think. So just start. Secondly, how I make
money as an influencer. This is what you can look forward to if you go down the path
of becoming an influencer. Brand deals, semi-earned
trips around the world. Like the Iceland trips that I put on. Sell courses, ebooks, prints online. I sell mentorship in my area of expertise. Sell photography, videography skills, and if you want to get extra insights on how to get paid as an influencer, if you're just starting,
here is the video for that. I hope you guys enjoyed this video, make sure you like, hit subscribe. Like, hit, hit? (laughs) Make sure you like, hit
the bell, subscribe, and I look forward to
seeing you guys next time. Peace out. 