Parkinson’s law states that “work expands
so as to fill the time available for its completion”. This law has been adapted and extended throughout
the years to apply to economics, computer science and management. It has corollaries like: “The amount of time that one has to perform
a task is the amount of time it will take to complete the task”, “Work contracts to fit in the time we give
it” or, “Work complicates to fill in the available
time”. Applying this concept to time management shows
us that defining a long period of time to complete an otherwise simple task ends up
complicating it, extending the timeframe of its completion and, at the end of the day,
making you lose precious hours of your available time. This time could be spent doing other more
interesting tasks, advancing on a special project of your own or simply asking around
whether you can fit in your schedule other type of tasks or projects. If you have a project with a deadline six
months from now, you will probably subdivide all of the tasks required for completion of
that project across those six months, even if completion of that project can be achieved
in one month. In a way, everyone has a predisposition to
stretch a task for the entirety of their available time. However, this can be incredibly unproductive
- you’ll be robbing yourself of time to complete other tasks that wouldn’t otherwise
be ignored because of that stretching; and 2) a lot of time spent dwelling on the same
type of intellectual problems can decrease the quality of your results. 1) When starting your project management or
planning, try to ignore your deadline in the beginning. Usually in school assignments, you can have
deadlines for the end of the semester, which gives you two to four months to complete your
assignment. You should be asking questions such as “how
long is reasonable for this project’s completion?” Or “how many tasks should be completed for
full completion of this project?”. This should give you a good understanding
of the overall effort required to finish the whole project. After this first overview you should already
have a timeframe in mind of the amount of hours required to finish your work. This number of hours will probably be quite
inferior to the formal deadline of your assignment. 2) Step number 2 is dividing your project
into specific tasks required for completion. Using paper or a digital calendar (or my favorite,
Notion, which has awesome project planning templates) to input all of the tasks and sub
tasks in a list format and assign them a duration. Using a spreadsheet can be useful for this
task as you can automatically add the duration of all tasks to achieve a final project completion
timeframe. For instance, let us assume that the total
amount of work required to finish this project is 40 hours. If you divide these 40 hours for 10 working
days, you can finish the whole project in under two weeks, if you commit to working
on it in a focused state for 4 hours a day. If you can’t commit to four hours a day,
you can double that amount and commit to work 2 hours a day for four weeks, during working
days. This is roughly a month, which means that
suddenly you will be able to finish your project in one month instead of three or four. 3) A good way to hack your way through Parkinson’s
Law is faking a deadline of your own. If your boss or professor tells you the project
is due January 2020, tell yourself the project is due November 2019. Establish a hard, optimistic boundary in your
own schedule and work with your completion timeframe around that optimistic boundary. If you have to push it a few days or a couple
of weeks further, do it if you feel like it will be important to increase the overall
quality of your project. Be brutal in establishing that fake deadline
in your calendar, planner and even in your conversations with colleagues or classmates. Get someone that you respect like a friend
or parent to make you accountable for the deadline by informing them that said deadline
is essential for the success of your project. 4) After you have this all figured out, it’s
time to schedule or calendar block all of these project sessions across the timeframe
you just created. And here you have to be really disciplined. Think of your project planning as unmovable
as your work or class schedule. Being consistent and increasing your progress
regularly and according to your plan is more important than doing a lot of unfocused work
during a whole weekend. 5) However, while being disciplined is essential
to make sure you comply with your own schedule, it’s also fundamental to be flexible when
considering any adaptations you need to make while you are working on your project. While planning the duration of each one of
the tasks required to complete your work is important, sometimes it’s hard to predict
exactly how long you will take for each one of the steps. In that sense, adapting your schedule meanwhile
will be very important to guarantee the quality of your final work and leaving enough buffer
time for revision will make sure your project is top notch when you turn it in. While Parkinson’s Law shows us that we have
a natural tendency to procrastinate when given a long period of time to work on something,
it shouldn’t be used as a justification for piling on an unhealthy amount of work. While awareness of this tendency is important
to manage your work, a healthy [work](http://work.life)-life balance is even more important. Stretching a project for an unnecessary amount
of time can be more beneficial to you than packing your schedule with work and gaining
even more unnecessary amounts of stress and eventually burnout. For instance, I believe that scheduling leisure
time is super beneficial in a busy schedule and something that I love to do is learning
more about new stuff. I hope you enjoyed today’s video and I will
see you next week. Bye guys! 