Hi there, hello there, hi for today's video I'm going to teach you
guys something that I get requested a lot it's probably my most requested
thing actually and that is to teach you how to mix skin tones I am excited I'm really excited to teach you how to mix paint because this is just a topic that's interesting to me! As you know, skin tones very so much, and there's also going to be a lot of variables. Is it going to be a nice sunny day? Is it going to be a cloudy day? Are they going to be partially in shade? Is it going to be nighttime, is it going dark out? Are they holding a candle? Is there any other form of light going on their face? Basically, what I'm trying to get
at here, is there's no clear, one answer to how to get a skin tone. That being said, I can give you some helpful tips hopefully :) But before we start mixing in skin tones, it's good to have an understanding of how paints, and mixing paints works. In school, you learn the basics of color mixing. So, red and yellow make orange, yellow and blue make green, and blue and red make purple. But when it comes to paint the main thing you want to worry about is the vibrancy. Vibrancy is one of the
reasons why to go ahead and buy pre-mixed versions of green, orange, and
purple. Let's go ahead and put some of these paints on the palette and get mixing and show you what I'm talking about here I'm putting the main colors of the rainbow in the smaller sections of the
palette. And the neon pink, yellow and electric blue in the corner over here. Going with a brush that does have a flat edge, We're going to start mixing
some colors. To start out I'm going to show you about vibrancy. So, I'm gonna take a little bit of our blue. Dab it on the plate, and a little bit of
red, and dab it on the plate. As you can see the red is very vibrant and the blue
is very deep and royal now let's mix them together and as you can see, the
purple it made is kind of dark, isn't it? It's not the brightest purple you might
want. Let's try and add a bit more blue. And nope. It's still dark. It's purple, but
it's a muddy purple. Going to the pre-mixed purple now. You can already see
the difference. It's more vibrant. Bright. Not paler like adding white would do to
it. It just has a richer tone. Let's try mixing a neon pink and the electric blue. Already you can see the bright purple color coming through. This is even more
vibrant than the pre-mixed purple I have. So having to think outside of the
box here, and to try to match that pre-mixed shade. I'm going to use my
neons. Take a dab of the neon pink, and the normal royal blue, mix them together,
and there you'll have it. The lesson here is to know what makes your paints mix to
be more vibrant. So essentially these are all shades of purple, and they're all
very different already. I should probably clarify the paint I'm
using today is "cheaper" acrylic paint. It does have a higher viscosity, as you can
see the paint is holding its shape. Now to tackle skin tones. The thing with skin tone, is it literally contain every single colour on your
palette. Starting with the lighter tones I'm going to add a couple of dabs of
white paint to my palette and we're going to add the tiniest dash of yellow , mix it in, and then we're going to add a little bit of red. And red is very
overpowering. Always start with less red and then add more later. We're going to
finish this out with a dash of green, and when I say dash, I do mean dash. And there we
have a basic pale skin tone. On the other side we're going to make it a little bit
darker. This time I'm adding a little bit more
yellow than before, bit more red, and some purple. Right now this is a muted, pale
tone, with some gray undertones. But we do want to make it darker so I'm going to
add a dash more red and a portion of yellow. The secret to mixing is mixing
in small amounts and adding more when necessary. So we have two different skin
tones now. One that is a pale ivory and one that is a rosy pale color. Now to move on to the next batch, and up these gradients again. A dot of white. A chunk of yellow, a dash of red a dash of purple and a bit of green. Mix these together. We're close to the base tone of the last one now. So to darken it, I'm
going to add more yellow, red, and green. And now I have a natural tone. Very similar to that one, just the next stage up. Then we're going for a richer tone
now. Again a dab of white to start big. Big chunk of yellow, good amount of red,
purple, and green. Mix these all together. Add a bit of blue, and I think I'm gonna
finish this off with a bit more yellow. Here are the skin tones so far. Another good way to look at skin tones is to look at makeup, because that's actually what foundation is, it's trying to match the skin tones of everyone. It's really hard
to get the colors right, and it's surprising sometimes what skin tone you
actually are. Using my hand as an example, you might think that this would
be my skin tone, this one over here. Let's put that on my skin and look how pale
that is, it's really pale. However, this darker one, all of a sudden it doesn't look as dark. Just using that for reference. Now on to the next tones. This time use a smaller dash of white, bigger amount of yellow, orange, mix them together. Mix in some red and green. More yellow, getting all those undertones going, and to darken it, I'm going to add red, yellow, and blue to finish it off. The next one I'm going to start with a base of the color I just mixed rather than
white. Add purple, add yellow, add in green, and we get this nice rich tone. The second to last one, the base is going to be purple with a dash of red, and finish off with a bit more yellow. Then the final one, I'm using the last color
as a small base. Adding red and blue, mix, and that's it. And something to keep in
mind is that these would be the medium skin tones of the painting. The base color that you start with, that you'll add white or darker tones to, to bring the gradient up or down through highlights and lowlights. Now let's paint these on the plate and line them up, see them side-by-side. and here we have an array of different skin tones Now to test these out, rather than trying
to pick a person to fit one of these tones, I'm going to use a subject that
fits all of these tones. I'm gonna paint a giraffe! Because a giraffe actually has all
the skin tones in person. So to keep this video "person neutral" we're going with a giraffe. So let's try this out   And that's how you use human skin tones to paint a giraffe. Yay! Sometimes painting a person can be
quite intimidating, So if you do want to practice skin tones, I do recommend painting a giraffe. You can just focus on just mixing the colors, not worry about blending them, putting them together right. Getting the structure right. You're just painting a giraffe. And now, was this just a big twisted way to justify not doing a self-portrait... absolutely. I did not want to paint myself today. Thank you for watching, I hope you enjoyed the video. And a thank you to
Skillshare for sponsoring. Skillshare is again something that I do really like and if you would like a free trial, there are details in the description about that. So please do check that out, it helps me out. This is my comment giveaway pin so if you'd like a chance to win all you have to do is leave a nice comment down below. and I'll pick winner next week. I'm going to be sad when this one goes, but I'm excited for the next one. Byes. Byes. Byes a byes byes. 