We're at ! This is the first time I tied my hair
since I cut my bangs Today, all five of us get to
try different styles so I think it'll be an awesome day And I hope MIDZY likes it Today, we all have lovely styling so you'll be able to see a very cute
version of  I think the fans will enjoy this This outfit goes really well
with my nail color Chaeryeong's clothes and her style feel very organized In the past, she used to prefer
black, white, and beige Rather than the style I like now I look for the style
that looks great on me My image keeps changing as I get older So I try to search for the style
that feels right for me Before we go on stage I think the members are trying
to get their energy up (The waiting room is filled
with positive energy!) [Chaeryeong] Let's go, everyone It's so cold [Chaeryeong] Cold We're wearing gloves today Do they look like regular gloves to you? Magic gloves Don't let your guard down! Oh! You got a cut while
sharpening your knives? That's a no-no (ITZY is feeling upbeat
before going on stage) Was it (chorus) okay? It wasn't bad (The roommates are closely monitoring
each other's performances♥) (The  stage was a success!)
We were ITZY! Thank you so much! (Monitoring in the waiting room!) [Ryujin] We need to sync the timing 'Don't meddle in'
The speed as we come down - The speed is different?
- It's the same for you and Lia (Ryujin's detailed choreo check!)
Yuna and I are the same Aww, you look so adorable today I shouldn't look adorable (Bluffing as usual)
I'm all grown up now This is driving me nuts Look at Yeji's mouth at the beginning So cool, right? They got an overhead shot using a jib And you can clearly see my hair
parted in the middle so I'm happy with it [Ryujin] Chaeryeong wrote
touching messages for us [Yeji] She's the best! [Yeji] Read it, Ryujin You're cool, pretty, and cute Don't get sensitive and always stay trivial [Yeji] Yechoo You'll never go tired Owner of two hearts, ITZY's passion
Sing even if you run out...? Sing even if you run out of breath [Ryujin] Yuna, the world's cutest [Yeji] That is so cute! (Lia = Human zit = Spot on)
[Ryujin] Lia's called the human zit [Yeji] Timid Chae (lol) [Yeji] That's adorable Hello, I'm the human zit [Yeji] You just wanna pop her, right? (Her strong eye-popping charm♥) [Yeji] That is so you [Lia] Pop it (Surprise messages made everyone happy♥)
Thanks, Chaeryeong I have two hearts, I'm a hybrid (?) What? (MC Yuna's crazy rapping LOL)
What was it? Hey, could you tell me the lyrics again? [Yeji] What was it?
It went, 'two hearts' or something Let me look it up...
Oh! I should make this my special skill Mountain-neck tie-elephant-tree trunk! Is this right?
Ryujin, is this right? [Ryujin] Yep (1 skill, 1 bite) (Practicing her skills) [Yeji] That's hilarious (No one can stop Yuna's passion...★) He's got bangs, too Something we have in common! This is it Mountain-neck tie-elephant-tree trunk! Mountain-neck tie-elephant-tree trunk! Two hearts! - Check!
- Hybrid! Check, my name is Shin Yuna Check! Check! I have two hearts I can sing  hundreds of times [Yeji] Check! - You can do it
- [Yeji] Check! - Let's get it!
- [Yeji] Check! I WANNA BE ME! ME! ME! (★Perfect duo★) (Watching their live stage together!) (Professional Yeji's sharp gaze) (About to pierce the monitor...) (Gorgeous♥) (Wrapped up  safe and sound!) (MBC Music Core) (Hectic waiting room at ) I can't believe I get to wear
a hairband on stage (Tingly) [Yeji] I know My hair went through a lot of changes
during the  promotion [Yeji] Yesterday, too You looked pretty when
you tied your hair down Actually, I've been saying... I wanted to try that hairstyle
since I debuted I can't believe that day finally came ♪ Whatever people say, I'm me ♪ (How to tape earpieces to your face.txt) It's cooler to tape it on the back Let's see Let me see your back I want to take a photo of your back It looks cute (What's ITZY's look for today?)
It's edgy and chic [Chaeryeong] It's edgy, chic, and pretty
at the same time (Warming up their voices on the way!) ♪ I wanna be! ♪ Be! Be! You can do it! We're at !  We're here Today's look is about cats I'm going to be a chic and edgy cat That's the look I'm going for Yesterday, it felt kind of bright because we wore denim Today, I've got a blouse on and
wearing my hair in a sleek ponytail So I'm gonna be a chic and edgy cat Cat! (It's been a long time since we came here) (!) (One, two, three!) (Yeah!) (Again?) (A nervous moment before going on stage) (Stretching in her spare time to relax!) (ITZY finished their rehearsal!) (Checking the paths before the live stage)
Yuna and your paths overlapped We've just finished pre-recording What were you thinking about
on stage today? Wow, today... Arghhhh! Arghhhh! I can't talk right now I saw you do 'Ah, yeah, yeah-yeah-yeah' You saw that? (Yeji's flapping★) - It was so cool
- Really? You look gorgeous today You look like you've been gift-wrapped
to be given to MIDZY (Shin Present)
Hi, I'm Yuna and I'm your present We just finished shooting  Now, we have  left ? Let's go! (Saying whatever comes to her mind) You didn't get to show off your detail yet No, I did this morning Really? How many times did you show them? Oh? Today, we tried on a new look and tried to look cool and chic on stage I wonder what MIDZY thought of it Yeah, today's theme was 'chic' It was 'cats' It was actually cats! I'm not sure if you noticed but we tried to act aloof, chic,
and proud like a cat A hint of smile We promised each other
to look cool on stage But I'm not sure if you got that I think we did a great job on stage today
Good job, ITZY! ITZY, great job! Let's do a good job at  tomorrow Let's do it! ITZY, MIDZY, WANNABE! ITZY! MIDZY! WANNABE! Whoo! That's it for today! Let's do it! (See you again at !) (SBS Inkigayo) I wore this outfit in the music video and I think MIDZY's going to love it Today's theme is all about smiling We decided to go with an energetic vibe I can't believe... it's already our second week We'll do our best on today's
 stage! Let's get it! [Yuna] Yeji... (Yeji chose the gesture for Yuna)
came up with it That's right (A little sneak peek) Come out~ (Refreshing Yuna♥) When I'm in a suit and
you come out wearing a dress (Cool & Lovely)
We have contrasting stylings today I'll be your bodyguard for today [Chaeryeong] Our styles
all contrast each other All five of us have different styles Right (I'll mind my own business...) [Chaeryeong] Oh, today... I'm going to act a bit coy and bubbly A lovely 20-year-old? (Sigh) (Who sighed?)
Who sighed? Was it Ryujin? Yuna? (Yuna was the culprit★)
[Yeji] Yuna? And I'm wearing hairpins as well I finally did a wavy hairstyle So I'm very happy about it
Today's outfit is my favorite (Let's see it quick♥)
I'm not sure if I should show you this Let's go! (Passionate)
♪ Don't meddle in ♪ (Chaeryeong's new singing style) ♪ Whatever people say, I'm me ♪ (Yeji's vivacious high pitch)
♪ Whatever people say, I'm me ♪ ♪ I just wanna be me ♪ ♪ I WANNABE ME ME ME ♪ Your pitch is off! [Lia] Did you say come in? [Yuna] Her pitch is off - [Lia] What's off?
- [Yuna] Her pitch is off She said, peach! - Peach
- [Ryujin] Juicy peach? My peach is off! That's funny (Yeji's singing again, lol) ♪ I WANNABE ME ME ME ♪ Do you know how she put
her hair in a bun like that? (Turn and turn) Follow Lia's head (Lia's bun was born from expert hands)
I thought they were turning something Like a grinder handle (Failed to do an impression) [Ryujin] Do you know what it's called? [Yuna] I can't believe this I really can't believe this (★ITZY's acting school opens★) (Off to the stage in a good mood!) (Monitoring intently!) (Live stage for  begins) (Lovely facial expression♥) (Their ★dance break★
that's always original) (ITZY won first place at !)
No way! Did you see our startled faces? Wow, I was so caught off guard
I don't even remember what I said MIDZY! I can't believe this! (Hehehehehe) Today was a very fulfilling and
meaningful day from the start We were awarded first place! Where? At ! Thanks to MIDZY We're so happy to win first place
for  and we feel so grateful MIDZY, thank you so much for today Let's also do our best on the third week
of the  promotion! Let's go get 'em! Wanna do 'ITZY, MIDZY, let's fly'? Sure ITZY, MIDZY, let's fly! I think I like this Me, too I think today must've been
a very happy day for MIDZY because we won first place I hope you guys remember today, March 22 Bye Oh, right! We also did  