Over the millennia, city dwellers have found
lots of effective ways to protect themselves against invaders. But the forces of nature have been harder
to keep out, especially because most cities lie along coasts and major waterways. In 1362, a storm aptly named “The Great
Drowning of Men” wiped out a string of European settlements, killing more than 25,000 people. In the centuries since, low-lying places like
the Netherlands have developed an impressive array of water-defense systems, including
wierden, dikes, ditches, dams, locks, and picturesque water pumps. And in the mid-20th century, the Dutch began
building an ambitious series of storm surge barriers that are among the largest movable
human-made objects in the world today. But with sea levels projected to rise by as
much as a meter in the next 90 years, and three more meters in the following century,
it’s clear that even the efforts of the Dutch won’t be enough. Nor is the Netherlands alone: cities all over
the world face similar threats, not only from rising seas, but also from warming waters
that are brewing stronger, scarier storms. Since keeping all this water out may simply
not be an option, people around the world are getting creative. Inventors in the U.K. have created thirsty
concrete capable of soaking up 600 liters of water per square meter EVERY minute and
funneling it away. Dutch engineers are designing floating homes
and shopping centers that can bob along on rising seas. And who knows…the storm-driven waves that
threaten cities today might one day provide enough energy to power them. Floods of data are changing how cities deal
with storms too, helping model where a storm is most likely to hit and visualizing where
evacuations might need to occur. We’ve also gone back to our roots. Salt marshes and mangroves in tidal zones
can slow the movement of incoming water, reducing wave heights and total wave energy by more
than 50%. Research shows that combining these natural
features with engineered ones could avert hundreds of millions of dollars worth of storm
damage in coastal urban neighborhoods such as New York’s Howard Beach. But so far, cities are far from fully storm-proofed;
we still need to gather more information and develop more solutions to make them as resilient
as possible. It’s a good thing urban areas are innovative
hotspots where great ideas are constantly flowing; they just need to flow out faster
than the water can flow in. 