Airplanes stay in the air because of one simple
fact: there is no net force on them. And with no net force, an object at rest stays
at rest, and an object in motion stays that way – even if it’s in midair 10 km above
the earth’s surface. Now of course it’s not like there aren’t
forces acting on the airplane; gravity pulls down on the plane itself plus all of the people
and baggage inside, and every single air molecule that is shot through the engine or collides
with the fuselage or wings pushes on the plane as well. But if all of these forces are balanced – in
particular, if the air molecules push the plane UP enough to counteract gravity – then
the plane stays up. Getting air molecules to push the plane up
is the crucial part of flying, and planes do this by making sure the undersides of the
wings crash into more air molecules more violently than the upper sides of the wings. When a plane is parked on the ground, air
molecules bounce off of the top and bottom of the wings in roughly equal amounts, or
with “equal pressure.” No lift. But in motion, the curved shape of the wings
and their slightly inclined angle means that the bottoms smash into more air molecules
than before (and smash harder into those molecules), so the pressure on the bottom of the wing
goes up. In addition, fewer air molecules now strike
the top of the wing and those that do strike it less forcefully, partly because it’s
being “shielded” by its own forward motion (the way running into the rain keeps your
back drier) and partly because a curving stream of air has lower pressure on the inside of
the curve since the molecules get thrown centripetally to the outside. But whatever the reasons, the pressure on
the top of the wing goes down. So, low pressure on the top plus high pressure
on the bottom, and the plane has lift. And if the pressure/force imbalance is big
enough, it can lift the plane up into the air against gravity! Now, all this crashing into air molecules
to lift the plane also pushes to slow the plane down – which it would, if not for
engines. Engines also push air (in this case, backwards),
either via a propellor, or a jet, or a jet driving a propellor. For various reasons, it turns out that you
want to have a really big propellor driven by a really small jet for the most efficient
engine. But even in inefficient engines, the spinning
fan blades get their horizontal lift, which we call “thrust,” by moving quickly through
air with a curved shape and a slightly inclined angle – they’re essentially mini-wings. And so an airplane is essentially a meta-wing:
it flies by moving mini-wings fast enough to push air molecules backwards, which moves
the plane forward fast enough that its big wings push air molecules down. 