Last night I was reading and thinking about the impacts of quantum teleportation on teleporting and consciousness and things and this morning CPG Grey just released a video about teleportation and consciousness. So I just couldn't resist, really really quickly writing up a very quick response video. Sometimes I spend like, days and months working on scripts. This script I literally sat down and wrote in about 30 minutes, so it may suck. It's a situation where I was already thinking about this stuff so it's easy when I have a clear direction of what I'm trying to say or what I'm trying to do, of how to actually be able to write the script. So now I'm going to record it and then I'll do some drawing and some other stuff. My good friend CG.. My good friend CGP... ce-cee-gee-cee-gee-cee-gee My good friend CPG Grey has made a great video about the practical and philosophical concerns-- I have now finished editing the audio and I have the storyboard all drawn. It's right here: this fancy-fancy-fancy storyboard and now what I'm doing is I'm gonna do the drawings. Alright, so now the first drawing in this one actually isn't a drawing. It's the... some shots from Grey's video so then the second drawing here is this iteration. *background voice: the concern when a transporter dismantles the atoms in your body and reassembles the identical arrangement of atoms somewhere else *camera clicks continuously* perhaps the disassembled you actually dies, and the reassembled you is actually a new being that just thinks it's you and if they simply hadn't-- *talking stop, camera clicking resumes* One additional thing I think about when I'm drawing is I try to draw things from left to right so that my hand reveals the picture Alright so there's one drawing, the first drawing of the video. It is done now. On to do the rest of the video.   I've finished the drawings for the video I've come back after dinner, and I going to edit it together. My drawings are actually image sequences - I take pictures as you could tell by the loud noise of the camera. It's upside down because the camera's upside down, so what I have to do, is turn them right side up and color-correct it and stuff. And then it looks better. Okay, so I actually need to add in a visual effect here. For when the disassembled person dies, I want a little ghostly figure to leave. And that is obviously not something I can do on paper. So what I'm trying to do, is make this guy have kinda of little ghostly version of himself that leaves. So I've separated out on a separate layer, just the guy from that. And what I'm going to do is animate it Moving over a series of frames, you know somewhere somewhere up and into the sky. And what that's going to do, is over time it's gonna up there. And then obviously I don't want it to be that opaque, so I'll make him a little bit fainter. Then I'm gonna have that fade out over time as well. So by somewhere like here, it's going to be around 0. Just kind of playing around with things. I've got the visual effect done, so here is what it looks like. Not that complicated. I really like doing visual effects when they're used carefully, and tastefully and not just to be fancy. I'm at the exciting stage where I have finished the video, and I'm exporting it. Here we go.   I just experienced one of the great joys of making videos, which is exporting the video and having it export all the way
to the very end and at the very last minute, 
it fails due to an  unknown compiler
error. So... I am trying to re-export it, and
we'll see what happens.   When I'm trying to design my thumbnail, I will just look through the video. I'm trying to find what I think is
going to look like a good thumbnail, and, normally they kind of jump out 
and are pretty obvious, so I think this one... ... with the teleportation may be 
one of the more compelling ones. I ended up going with a thumbnail 
that was a little bit more customized. I took pieces of two of the 
teleportation ones, and added this arrow in the
middle. And I also have this version of
it that has a title. This is quantum teleportation. Hopefully those are more compelling
thumbnails, and people will want to click on them.   You may have noticed this is a bit of none usual video, and not my normal style and I like to thank you for watching it 