(Finding TWICE's MBTI) Hello, I'm TWICE's MINA. I'm going to be taking the MBTI test today. I heard it's very accurate so I'll give it a go. I'm curious, and let's get started. Start. Ignore or forget... (There are times when you ignore your surroundings
or forget what you was thinking about) Nope. I'm very observant. (You try to reply to
emails as quickly as you can) No I... Reply very late. (You think you are
better than other people) Nah, I don't think so. I think you can tell that I'm very indecisive. I'm not good with closures. (Thinking hard...) The questions are harder than I thought. No, I usually go on a trip
without much planning. I usually go on trips without much planning, but I do have a general idea of places 
I want to visit for the first time. But nothing too specific. For places like Hawaii, I've been there a couple times so I just go and enjoy
whatever is available. I don't really like being around crowded areas... I'm not a person who starts a conversation so I'm not very social. It's fun to be there, but I still find it hard to fit in. Maybe that's why I like to play games? (Planning and scheduling is the
most important part of the project.) Yes, it's best to have a schedule. I like things that are planned out so when people spontaneously say
'Let's go there!' I feel that my planned
has been ruined a bit. I'm half done. (Laughs) This is kind of hard. I keep my stuff
(You don't put stuff back in their place) pretty much in my area. I got the results! (Raise your hands if you're curious!) I got ISFP-T. It says I'm very introverted. 76%.
(Introvert) 84% realistic. 79% cautious. 53% curious. And someone who abides by the rules 85%. Am I too much of a realist? I wake and I’m one person, and when I go to sleep I know
for certain I’m somebody else. (Laughs) Oh, no. They say I change during the day. That's scary. Adventurers live to find
ways to push their passions. Am I that passionate? They are passionate adventurers. Riskier behaviors like extreme sports are more common with this personality
type than with others. I'm not like that! I don't think I'm this personality. I'm not even good at riding
rides in amusement parks. And I'm not very adventurous. Hm. They say I'm very passionate and curious and someone who's very driven but as you guys know I'm not that kind of person. But I think they got that part right about me being a realist. If you see the graph above all the percentages are pretty accurate. Adventurers’ have a tendency to actively avoid planning for the future and can cause strain in their life. That's hard because no matter how hard you plan, it never goes according to plan. Oh, JIHYO got this as well? I see. I think there are accurate parts, but... Hm... I am curious about a lot of things but I tend to do it myself because I don't want there to be troubles. They say my friends and family have a hard time guessing what I'll do. I'm pretty sure no one expected me to be an idol. I was very quiet and didn't have a lot of friends so even now, they ask me "You were so" "Quiet and introverted." "You weren't a person" "to come out and play with friends." "How are you an idol?" I'm pretty sure my parents never would
have imagined it as well. I find it interesting as well. I feel I've changed into this person. An adventurer observes other people's feelings and always puts their feelings first. I think this is the most accurate part. I've never fought with
anyone since I was young. I don't like fighting. I've never fought with my brother and I think this shows in the results. Even though I might have a different opinion, I still want to be friends. Yeah, that's me. I'm surprised JIHYO got the same as me. I'm sure the percentages were different. So yeah, they say I'm
an curious adventurer. So we took this test today and ONCE might think that I might not fit this personality but there are some parts
that are pretty accurate and maybe some parts are just lying dormant in me. So I really hope you guys had fun watching this today. You guys should try it too! Bye! 