April 15, 1856 A steamboat called the Illinois arrives in
Aspinwall, a Central American seaport off the coast of the Caribbean. It carries about 1,000 passengers, all of
whom are heading to California by way of a Pacific Mail Steamer called the John L. Stephens
at Panama City. On board the Illinois is an American named
Jack Oliver. The train ride to Panama City will take about
5 hours - and, while waiting for it to arrive at the station, Jack Oliver decides to visit
the nearby Aspinwall attraction known as Bottle Avenue - a road littered with local bars and
cantinas. Jack Oliver has a drink, and purchases several
more for the impending train ride. When it finally arrives - the passengers all
come aboard. Several of them, including Jack, are drunk. The 5 hour journey passes with the men continuing
the festivities as they’re transported to Panama City. By the time Jack Oliver steps off the train,
he is, for all intents and purposes, exceedingly intoxicated. The passengers soon find out they are, again,
stalled. Panama City has no wharfs for large vessels
like the John L. Stephens to dock - the primary site for this is the nearby Taboga Island,
which sits 20 kilometers away, only reachable from the mainland by ferry. These ferries to and from Panama City are
only possible during high tide, but on this particular day, Jack Oliver and the other
passengers have arrived during low tide - meaning these 1,000 American travelers are forced
to sit and wait several hours for the tide to come in. Jack Oliver and a few others decide to go
drinking. A block or so from the railway station, he
and his compatriots find a bar and settle in. After an hour or so, the already drunken men
are utterly plastered. Jack Oliver and his friends stumble out onto
the street and begin to make their way to the ferry for the last leg of the trip. They happen upon a vendor named Jose Manuel
Luna, who is selling slices of watermelon on the street for five cents a piece. Drunken Jack Oliver walks over, takes a slice
of watermelon, eats it, and refuses to pay. From here, accounts differ. It is generally believed at this point that
the vendor, Jose Manuel Luna, pulls out a knife and threatens Jack Oliver. In response, one of Oliver’s friends throws
a nickel at the vendor’s face, and the argument escalates. Oliver, at some point, pulls out his revolver
and points it at the vendor. The knife-wielding Jose Manuel Luna turns
and runs. Another Panamanian, who witnesses the entire
incident, tackles Oliver, and a struggle ensues. (GUNSHOT.) The gun goes off, and a bystander across the
street is hit. Blood pours onto the pavement. An American has shot a son of Panama. Moments later, more locals arrive, join the
fight, and more shots are fired. A riot ensues. (GUNSHOTS.) Panamanians charge through the city, mercilessly
beating and robbing any Americans they see. Several American-owned hotels are looted,
and other buildings, destroyed. When the police arrive to contain the violence,
one of them is hit by a stray bullet from an American railroad station. At this, the officers immediately abandon
their posts and join in the riot. At the railroad station, an American freight
agent named Joseph Stokes sends a telegraph to the other stations to warn them of the
emergency, and pleads for someone… anyone... to come to their aid. Outside the railroad station, the mob tears
the telegraph pole down, attempting to use it as a battering ram to break through the
front door. Windows shatter as rocks and bullets rip through
the air. Eventually, help for the Americans arrives
by train. Inside is a small battalion of armed railway
agents lead by Randolph “The Hangman” Runnels, an ex-Texas Ranger and well-respected
leader of a former local militia known as The Isthmian Guard. Runnels and his men jump out of the train,
take aim at the horde of rioters and shout for them to put down their weapons. "Drop your weapons! Every one one of you!" "The Hangman" Randolph Runnels is a living
Panamanian legend, and at the sight of him, the locals immediately stop rioting, turn,
and flee. By the time the dust settles, fifteen Americans
and two Panamanians are dead. Another twenty-nine are injured. All over a 5 cent slice of Watermelon. But, of course, it wasn’t REALLY about that,
was it? You could blame the increased tension in the
city between Panamanians and Americans - the locals had grown bitter toward the U.S. for
a stagnant economy and low employment since the country’s arrival. You could blame the Illinois for arriving
too soon, leaving 1,000 Americans to wander the streets of a resentful populace. You could blame Jack Oliver for not being
able to hold his liquor. You could blame Bottle Avenue for selling
the liquor in the first place. You could blame Jose Manuel Luna for pulling
a knife over a case of petty theft. You could blame Oliver’s friend for throwing
a nickel in Luna’s face and needlessly escalating the situation. You could blame the locals for rioting. You could blame the police for joining in. You could blame all of these things, or any
one of them - but that’s the thing about history. History doesn’t care whose fault it is. It just lays out the facts. It's up to us to decide what they mean. In response to the riot, the United States
is soon granted by New Granada the right to establish military bases on islands in the
Bay of Panama, as well as the right to take control of the Panamanian Railroad. This increases American presence in the area
- and eventually, leads to the creation of what we now call the Panama Canal. The U.S. military bases remain there until
December 31, 1999. A day later, the new millennium begins. This pilot episode of REALLY WEIRD HISTORY
is brought to you by Skillshare. 