Let's get crazy! Hi guys, this is Elly from Weki Meki Today is my birthday! To celebrate my birthday with you, you know MBTI test is really popular these days we made the 'ELLY'TI test It's a test for Elly And a test by Elly Are you guys excited yet? Let's start it Set, go! I pushed the start button I'd choose Picky picky Because   is one of 
the most memorable performances also other members really enjoyed it Next! Elly with colored contacts? or no contacts? Well, I really like my natural eyes I think a lot of Ki-Lings do, too! Right? So I'd choose 'no-contacts' Elly Dressy vs casual I'd choose dressy Because usually, 
I really like casual outfits But recently we did a dance video in suits and I thought I looked cute in suits So, dressy for this one 44 seconds Wait, we only have 44 mins left?! Jeong Pro vs Elle Bingoo Elle Bingoo! Because, I think my fans like my goofy weirdo side I like myself being 
all goofy and weird, too I gotta speed up a little Red lipstick vs Pink lipstick I used to wear pink lipstick all the time But recently, I wear red more I wear it daily and also on the stage Only have 19 more seconds! Colored hair vs black hair Colored! Cause my fans love my blue hair and I love it, too I love you vs I support you I love you <3 I like "I support you" but I like "I love you" better
it just warms my heart I love you lots and lots, Ki-Ling! Time's up! Let's see the results of 'ELLY'TI This is it? I got 'PRO-IDOL' type Haha what is this So let's read the description You must have been a k-pop idol 
even in your past life at least 3 times Your 'ELLY'TI is Pro-idol type Pro-idol type people 
naturally draws everyone's attention You are born to be a celebrity I see Your weakness is that sometimes 
you hurt people's heart It's because you always "nail" your performances... Wait, I hurt people's heart...? Oh cause I nail it? lol It's a pun! haha oh my You have endless charms everyone falls in love, but never falls out Your lucky charm is your 'passport' Your nose is high and sharp like the Everest And your face is like an art 
it feels like we in the Vourve in France... Vou..V... the Louvre in France! Your lucky occupation is 'Pro-idol' 'Pro-idol' 'Pro-idol' lol Celebrities with this type are... One and only, #1 in the universe, 
Queen and Goddess, everyone's first love Wow, that was long Elly of Weki Meki!! Yeah, I'm the pro-idol type Everyone's first love...I like that How did you...come up with this This is so funny(?) and adorable Amazing And thank you so so much 
for all the birthday wishes, Ki-Lings I had a really nice birthday Be happy tomorrow and everyday! Bye, everyone! Let's get crazy. It was your Elly from Weki Meki! 