(reading others lol) Hello, this is Bo mi of Bbom Bbom Bbom (lol she's suddenly embarrassed lol) You remember it, right? That sandwich
which was very popular in Inkigayo! After that, I heard that
salmon rice burritos and fried tofu rice balls!
They are really popular these days So I'll try eating those today and review their tastes First of all, there are so many kinds 
of sandwiches The sandwiches only available in Inkigayo This one has cheese inside This one! This is the one
I'm gonna eat today! It's the salmon rice burrito I heard that it is the most popular one! I heard that you can't buy this
from the store if you don't come here early I'll try eating these two today (the fried tofu rice balls with four flavors,
Inkigayo's rice burrito) I'll try eating these rice balls first Is it a fried tofu rice ball with wasabi? Umm~ (she's amazed first lol) (yum yum yum) What is this? Avocado! Ah, avocado? I heard that it's an
avocado fried tofu rice ball (ttyong~!) Since I don't really like avocado (what was her reaction just a while ago...) It's a normal fried tofu rice ball for now! It's delicious, I'm not sure about
anything special yet Certainly, it's completely filled inside Next, I'll try eating this one! (mouthful) Umm~ it's delicious! (roughly, she means that 
it's delicious (1)) First of all, the best part is that
it's completely filled inside I'll try having one more bite Umm~ (roughly, she means that 
it's delicious (2)) Pollack roe mayonnaise Right? I think it's
pollack roe mayonnaise! It's a bit salty and yet
it's pollack roe mayonnaise Wow, I guess this can't be tasteless at all Can you see it, everyone?
I think it's beef Is it teriyaki sauce?
I'll try eating it once (having a large mouthful!) (mumbling mumbling) Umm~ it tastes like the meat from an 
elegant conveyor-belt sushi restaurant I could taste the fire smell of meat Okay, I'll have one more mouthful of it~ (FIRE SMELL) Umm~ so delicious! It's delicious indeed~ Overall, all of them are a bit salty So, I guess they can't be 
tasteless, you know? Okay then, the last one!
Well, this one is a real basic tuna rice ball Tuna rice ball! It's funnier
that no one is laughing (everyone except Bo mi is blank lol) It's a tuna mayonnaise rice ball,
I'll try eating it! Umm~ it's delicious!
It's delicious It feels like I'm biting 
the chewy tuna and crisp onion together? I described it really well now, right? (self-complimenting Bo mi lol)
I think I got fluent a lot And yet, the best one among these is this pollack roe mayonnaise
fried tofu rice cake! It's the best one (the best one is going in) Overall, I was wondering 
why this is popular It's plentiful! Although it only contains 4,
each is completely filled inside that it feels like I'm eating 20 
different kinds, I think it's good Just seeing these 4 makes me
think it's so little but it feels like I'd get really full
if I eat all of them? As I just said, it's completely 
filled inside with rice and since it tastes a strong sauce,
it's not either salty or bland? It costs 8,500 won, everyone! Ah~ it's a little expensive but I think it's worth it It has the fire smell of meat and it tastes a really good 
quality meat as well It's inside is plentiful! Did I describe it well? (you did it well!) The long-waited main menu I'll try eating the 
salmon rice burrito (serious visual) Ah, I look forward to this the most because it's so vague to make
salmon sauce and mix with rice But since it came out
as burrito like this I think it's a little refreshing It's my first time eating it! Inside here, there are crab sticks, eggs,
cabbages, pickled radish, and salmon! and beside it, there are lettuce, rice,
seaweed completely stacked like this Okay, I'll have a mouthful,
the inside is quite plentiful, right? Ah~ it's kimbap! Wow! You could just think of it as
king kimbap, king kimbap! Oh~ but I think it's gonne be a big seller I'll try eating it~ Ah~~ (ah, it's amazing) (a lonely Bbom-gourmet) First of all, the salmon tastes bland But those people who really like salmon I think they'll like it a lot,
I'll try eating it once more (2nd try) (it goes in) I really like salmon but I think the sauce 
is a bit lacking, for me But people say it's really delicious ((Bbom-ficial) everyone has different appetites, but it tastes bland for me)
Since everyone has different appetites~ Umm~ this part is a little better Is it because I only eat the salmon? What is this one? Ang-butter! I think Hayoung said 
this is delicious though? I'll try eating it once, I heard
this is red bean paste, and this is butter Since there was a member in our team
who said it's delicious I'm curious about it, 
so I'll try eating it once It's really shaped like thunderbolt Umm~ wow! What an amazing taste! It's so delicious, you know? It's not bad!
It's not bad! I think it's most delicious
among the food I ate today This is my style of taste,
this is my style of taste! It's so sweet! Although I don't really like
red bean paste The butter inside smells softly! (she likes it so much) Okay so, I tried eating the 
fried tofu rice balls and salmon rice burrito following the Inkigayo sandwiches In fact, since I'm not alone here although I'm not sure how I'd look
since I shoot it hurriedly To summarize it, I think I know
why it's sold out Because it feels like eating a proper meal
for the fried tofu rice balls Although it's slightly expensive,
it's completely filled inside to that extent and all the ingredients 
on top of them were delicious I thought it was the same with
having a plentiful meal so I'm very satisfied Well, I'm not an expert In my appetite, the salmon rice burrito
was not exactly my preference I think this Ang-butter! 
is rather my preference Nam joo~ Nam joo!
Help me! Nam joo came in!
The one who reviews food better than me We'll have Nam joo review it in the end
and wrap it up! It must be so delicious, you know? Try to show it closer here! - Although I showed it a while ago
- Ah, okay okay, Nam joo three meals~ (lol)
Nam joo three meals~ Umm! - Is it delicious?
- It's delicious Oh~ I think it's Nam joo's preference - Is it delicious?
- Yes! It's so delicious, you know? Oh~ I think it's Nam joo's preference I thought the sauce was a bit lacking It feels like the salmon rice
sold at a real elegant department store! I think I'll get full even if I 
only eat half of it The salmon is so fresh, you know?
It's so delicious But it felt like I was eating the
salmon without dipping in sauce Aren't you full because
you ate many of them? Ah, would that be it? You think it's delicious because
you didn't eat anything and you got hungry, don't you? Right! I'm hungry right now I know! That's why you reacted that way~ Oh~ Nam joo properly reviews it for me That was good, Nam joo! - What is this? Pork cutlet?
- Yet, pork cutlet There's wasabi, but I'll not put it in (reading others lol)
How is it? Let's say that this is not 
Nam joo's preference~ Let's leave this, and share it
with our members Right! It tastes so stale! It wasn't Nam joo's preference
That was how I reacted for the salmon a while ago Look, I think everyone has
different appetites, guys It's delicious but, it's too stale! Apink Apink! Mine just came out! (a shocking truth)
Apink? Ah, I guess she ordered something else Guys, this wasn't all that was shocking She ordered something again! (Nam joo's out of control lol) (shocked) (lol) (lol) Ah hey! Did we come here to eat meals? I come here to eat,
in Inkigayo Let me summarize it again I tried eating the salmon rice burrito
and fried tofu rice balls following the sandwiches
which were so popular in Inkigayo It's completely filled inside somehow And all those things on top, or inside I think each one of them were 
a bit elegant, you know? The salmon is fresh as well! (the guest out of this world lol) Anyways, I had a really nice meal today Since I think that I eat such a generous food
whenever I come to Inkigayo I thank you so so much But in Inkigayo, 
the cup ramen is most delicious Anyways guys, then I would wrap it up at this point I had such a nice meal today, wow~ She orders Spam The special taste of Inkigayo menu
here is the Spam! Right! I really acknowledge this one~ You should really eat the 
spam no matter what (review summary) It's completely filled inside It's completely filled and It's completely filled please click like and subscribe~
Bye~ It was Bo mi of Bbom Bbom Bbom How much do I get paid for today's show? (speechless) Nam joo, try this What? 