The last one, 1, 2, 3 (Punch, punch) Hey! Lower your ears,
lower your ears (Sad) Tail (How mean) How do I look? Do I look too messy today? Was that an answer? (Rubbing, rubbing) You don't look okay Okay, let's do the exclusive interview Good Our room people, come out (Too excited) Wait, I'm about to sneeze Look here, look here It went in, it went in It went in as I talked Chaeyoung Seriously, so pretty I've seen this scene before from somewhere,
where did I see this before? It's the scene from the music video So pretty, right? Chaeyoung is pretending
as if she's sleeping (Princess Chaeyoung woke up) Seoyeon Yes? The lens for this got blocked Let's not upload this Let's give up on this, Seoyeon I don't think we can upload this Saerom, send it to me Nagyung, I can't AirDrop the beat
to your phone Do the AirDrop the beat to me again Nagyung, yours doesn't work Right? Why not? It works only for the latest versions Okay, okay (Hayoung fell asleep
and woke up again) I want something sweet Knock knock Knock knock? I slept - You slept?
- Yes - Hayoung, you slept?
- Yes Your hair says you slept Hayoung hi Since yesterday you've been walking
into our room like an old lady. (Changing the camera angle) If you do this You can see us, right? If you want to be hip sometime,
just come up to the 2nd floor (Full of emotion) There it is, there it is (Taking a commemorative photo) (Dancing, dancing) I came to the 2nd floor.. (Everyone is doing their own thing) - Why is only one eye in the photo?
- I know, right? She's acting like she's
in a variety show over there She's filming a vlog right now Bye Bye (Hayoung left and Chaeyoung came) People just left like that,
what happened? So cool Come here Chaeyoung Chaeyoung, Chaeyoung (Safely got on the bed) Umm.. Could you leave..? Babe Ah..(Annoyed) (Lie down) Go away, oh my gosh, go away (Pushing her down with strength) (Giving up quickly) (Saerom is looking for something) With this lighting,
you have to take a selfie (Saerom's photography time has returned) What's today's date? No April 1st (Jisun is doing her own thing) (Q. Like Saerom's place is in the closet,
is Jisun's place in front of the air purifier?) I just always end up being there If I go there after I work out,
it feels cool there I don't really want to go
to my bed without my pajamas on.. Right, I hate that too I need more motivation
to wash up as well You used to stay by the vanity since some time ago,
you were there I do go back and forth between them 1, 2, 3 - Wait, I didn't pose yet..
- Not yet? (Posing right now) You know my style,
I like candid photos No, not like that Candid style It feels too elegant right now Oh wait.. This is not for a pictorial (Chayoung&Nagyung are so serious) What are you doing? Wait, take a picture for me (Peekaboo) (Laughed too hard) (Posing) Let me hold it up (Immersed in the photo time) (Very into it) Ah, seriously Take it already,
I'm very into this right now Hey, seriously,
this doesn't happen every day Ma'am.. It's too much Chaeyoung, that's too much Isn't this how it normally goes
for magazines like this? Okay, I'll make it look natural (Natural(?)) Ah, Jisun made me smile a little I can't work with these people (Photo time ended with a sad ending) Change the song please We have different song preferences We like the same songs except for Nagyung I don't say much, but she
complains so much No, I didn't, I never complained that much She has the same song preferences
as my brother I can tell who the singer is
just by listening to the song (After playing together,
pending time by themselves) (Swoosh) Are you bored? I'm hungry You are hungry? Did you have a small dinner? Did you eat dinner? (Acting strangely due to hunger?) I ate salad.. When did you eat? Oh no.. It's time (for Seoyeon) to eat.. Ahhh It's time for her to eat Do you want this? No No? You want to eat
something substantial? No, no, no, Seoyeon, no, no, no Seoyeon, no Seoyeon, no, NO Hungry Seoyeon, this place
is for 2 people maximum I'm sorry but it's for 1 person maximum Why? What song did I play? It was some unidentified song Only you out of everyone on the 2nd floor
don't like my choice of music Hey.. I'm not wrong to not like it,
we are just different We don't like the same things (Seoyeon is eating the left-over
kimchi fried rice from breakfast) (Watching a horror movie with Gyuri) Which movie is that? The Invisible Man The Invisible Man? (Q.I saw you watching a horror movie,
do you like all kinds of movies?) Oh.. what's wrong with her? I like almost all kinds except
for fantasy and action movies If it's too realistic, I can't concentrate on it (Gyuri & Seoyeon, fully
concentrated on the move) Oh.. oh my goodness (Concentrating again) I watch many horror movies
by myself in the movie theater I tend to get really scared
but still watch them I cover my eyes and scream
but I still watch everything I came to wear socks Bam, bam, bam, bam Working out makes people happy So you need to work out every day (Q. I heard you singing
throughout your day..) You just sang the regular trash song Sing it for us I really hoped that she'd not come
back to our room.. Oh really? It's so impromptu When I'm in a good mood,
I just start singing Do it, I'll make you feel good A melody that makes you  happy I feel happy (Embarrassed) She went like this
as she sang this before Regular trash But she makes other members feel
embarrassed when she does that Chaeyoung do it with me I'm fine I'm fine (Hayoung feels happy
at the thought of working out) See you, Hayoung Bye I've been working out hard these days You want to see Hayoung
working out, right? I'll show you a picture of it later A picture of you I see I took it yesterday (Looking for Jiwon who said
she'll show a picture) (Surprised) (Seoyeon got into it) (Hayoung is back) .. Are you back already? (Hayoung forgot to bring her phone) (Saerom still at the same seat) When I learned how to edit videos, Someone at the video division
lent me a laptop not long ago So I've been working on it
at home like at the office I've been sitting for too long,
and my back started to hurt So I've been bringing my belongings there
one by one, and that's how it ended up like that At this rate, she may stay
at that place forever - I know
- You do everything there, including eating I need to eat something, I'm too hungry (Nagyung went downstairs to eat) What are you watching? Wait, this is (Hayoung is still looking
for her phone) The Invisible Man I saw this It makes you feel uncomfortable Found it Okay Thank you Okay Did you buy something? Me? I bought school supplies Seoyeon, I think that's mine (Jiheon is organizing
the school supplies she bought) (Q.You bought new pens and pencils
and notebooks) Since new school semester starts soon,
I got them abruptly today I should have done that yesterday
and the day before that.. But I kept postponing it until the weekend.. But my school teacher just sent us a text.. It said, "Send a picture of your homework" So I did it just then (Jiheon is doing her homework
she didn't get done) (Q. Do you do procrastinate
doing your homework?) Yes I tend to concentrate very hard
when I do something I can't concentrate many times though If I get interrupted, I can't get things done (Q. Aren't you supposed
to do homework every day?) Has anyone done her homework
every day? No, right? I did mine every day.. You did? Have you never written
your journal entries all at once? I can't say no to that but.. Right? (Working hard on her homework) I finished all the eggs? I ate all of your eggs So cool So cool (Nagyung, eating kimchi fried rice without eggs) (Gyuri & Seoyeon is into the movie again) I'll get so upset if my money
gets withdrawn tomorrow from my phone (Jisun, helping Chaeyoung
canceling optional services) So seriously Stop it, why do you keep
asking me to give you things? I have nothing.. Nothing Not even 10won Just nothing (Q. Surprisingly, you use your phone a lot) Umm.. Should I tell you everything? Wouldn't this run out of battery? I got goosebumps just now hearing she'll tell us everything Go in, it's okay Things like.. basically, I look up
videos, online shopping, ASMR..(Materials for it..) With an iPad, I'm mostly reviewing
the things I've done Other than the comments, I look things up I see other people's videos and mine and try to brainstorm and analyze (Jisun & Chaeyoung are
talking about shopping) I got pants this big I thought I bought leggings Chaeyoung asked me my pants size We thought about things together..
canceled optional services together.. (Jisun had so much fun with Chaeyoung) (Haven't seen Jisun so hyper in a while) (As long as you are happy, it's all good..) I feel like I get dirty when I play with you Hey No (Chaeyoung came back to the 1st floor) Jisun, seriously What's this? The Invisible Man (Her happiness level is very high) The Invisible Man? Yes I wanted to watch it too It just began (Chaeyoung joins them
in watching the movie) Nagyung saw it and she said
it makes you feel uncomfortable That was good (Hahaha) (Gyuri explains what happened so far) Wow, Seoyeon is full Good job Huh? What was that excessive use of force for? (Hahaha) What a trash She's watching again over there.. Ah It's a show I like watching It's called Love Naggers.. - I watched it on Netflix
- I know, I know As I was watching it, I got really mad I got really mad So I watched hard it while eating,
got super into it, and got mad by myself Right, there is something
that always upsets Nagyung But other members get upset
when they watch it too though When that show ends,
Nagyung will get sad (Jiwon came back home) It's cold (Q. Where did you go?) To the gym When I come back home from gym, I get happy (Chaeyoung, Jiwon, Hayoung are in sync) Oh, I did it.. (Hahaha) It hurts my pride I'm going to the gym Right now there 3 of me, 1, 2, 3 Bye (Jiwon is exercising very hard) Whew, I'm tired Done exercising (Q. I'm guessing you guys go to the gym often) We do Chaeyoung I stopped going (to the gym) this week I went until last week Chaeyoung I took a break this week I'll go again next time Put a hand on here and say it again I went a lot until last week I took a short break this week Woah (It doesn't show when she gets surprised) Gyuri, the one I ate, the one
I asked you if it's steamed eggs How do you make that? Should I make it for you? Yes I made it for Hayoung Hayoung said it's good It's good Gyuri's coconut bread Made by Gyuri There's something
I'm addicted to these days It's called coconut bread.. Oh right It's bread made with coconut powder I've made it for other members before Nagyung had a bite of it
while I was eating it She said it was good
and told me to make it again.. (So I did) (Gyuri's eyes and body
are doing different things) If you teach me how to make it,
I'll make it myself It's fine, it's hard It's not easy It's not? Made by Gyuri? Made by Gyuri? (Seoyeon can't understand
the rules of a horror movie) I'll turn on all the lights
and stay in my room by myself (Can't take her eyes off of the screen) Woah Huh? I already did it You'll get goosebumps here,
watch carefully (Hesitant) (We left it in since it was cute..) Scary (Reacting right away) Nagyung, this tastes a bit
different every time I make it It's fine I don't feel confident (Seoyeon is 150% into the movie) (Whisk, whisk) (Q. You kept watching the movie
as you were cooking) In my mind, I wanted to do both.. I wanted to both cook and watch the movie But I'm bad at multitasking.. So I kept doing this as I watched it What a nice friend (Got surprised for real) (Hahaha) Ah so cute Why did they cover it? (Thought it was funny herself) That's overreacting, wow (Tap, tap, tap, tap) (Incredible reflex) (Focused again) (Came back to watch the movie
in the short time for break) (Whisk, whisk) (Coconut bread made by Gyuri
is finally finished) Here, here So hottt (No words for her) Why are you touching my ears? I just saw your ears Is it cooked? I can't tell (Gyuri & Seoyeon both came
in front of the coconut bread) It looks like steamed eggs It looks a bit undercooked.. But you won't die Okay Is it okay? That dad is kind of sweet Nagyung, think about it
from the main character's perspective... What? I mean the dad.. You'll get mad Ah.. so annoying She's into it (Positions herself casually) As I was watching it, it made me
feel like puking a little bit Also, I watched it as I was eating,
so after I finished eating, it still.. I kept watching because I wanted
to know the ending, but I couldn't watch it while sitting still So I kept moving around while watching it.. I watched it in all kinds of postures (Jisun is spending time by herself) (Jisun came down to eat dinner) (Got into it without knowing it hahaha) (She can't take her eyes off of it either) (All 3 of them look frozen like statues) (Jisun is making dinner) Why do I think it's so funny? The acting for this must've been hard He must've had to go
like woah, woah by himself I'm sure someone in green tights
must've done it with him.. (Q. I found that Nagyung checks her phone a lot)
I do, I do a lot I look up a lot of different things I watched YouTube I got to see Jisun's ASMR in detail recently I was watching it, and she was chewing
something, she looked so cute She looked so serious (Recreating the scene) She went like that and it was so cute I even showed it to Gyuri I think - You did?
- (As of the filming date) What's the theme of Jisun's latest video? Isn't it the one with removing makeup? Wow I saw it yesterday Thank goodness (Jisun join them for the movie) I got sick of chicken breasts so I bought
this, but I can't tell what's different They look different (Nom nom) What? I really can't tell what
the movie is trying to say (Jiheon finally came out of her room) (Came out to find snacks) (Jiheon's eating Ten*...) (Jiheon concentrates on doing
her homework again) (Let me eat another one) (Working hard) (The movie is approaching the climax) How did lifting the knife
look so easy just now? Isn't that almost a kitchen knife? I don't think it's a knife It's making me so frustrated,
I can't watch it He must feel it's so unfair.. (Couldn't concentrate
because Jisun is too funny) She's so cranky (They think it's gross
but keep watching it hahaha) I found a new bakery Where? Let me guess - I know, wait
- Why are you trying to guess it? It's not across that street Right, so let me guess, wait I know, it's where they sell bread loaves It's not (Chaeyoung lost her phone for a while) It's ringing (If it feels like a deja vu of 1 year ago,
you are correct) Goosebumps I'm not even getting goosebumps I knew it would be there She's lying down again Is it the Shiba Inu? Yes This is Jiwon's foot odor They don't smell They smell good,
didn't you go to the gym? Wow, Jiwon, even your feet smell good You can lie on this, lie on this (Tap) (Hahaha) Why? What? I saw the roof of your mouth
for the first time in 3 years She doesn't know I saw the roof Saerom's mouth
for the first time in my life (Q. I saw that Saerom took over Hayoung's role)
She wasn't there? Hayoung wasn't there? - We didn't know
- I didn't know she wasn't there I don't think I feel too happy Wow, that really was a bit embarrassing I embarrassed you? Okay, I won't do it Many of the members tend
to adjust to person next to them When people come to our room,
they become one of us It's especially true for Saerom Isn't Saerom funny these days? All members are funny these days Jisun and Saerom are so funny these days,
even looking at them makes me laugh They are perfect for variety shows Funny members, Fun-mem What? What? What? I didn't see it I don't know why I'm funny Seriously Don't say it, don't say it Find out with the actual footage Why? Tell me No, you'll get hurt if you find out What? Whatever, it's all for your own good So you - It's better that you don't know
- You'll get hurt if you find out (It feels like Jiwon will be the first one
to get hurt if she finds out..) So where's my thing? Where's my Shiba Inu? (Slowly) Thank you So cute So where's that bakery? Don't you know the potato bread? (Thinking) (Kaakkk)(Terrorized her eardrum) (Q. Saerom got super hyper..) That must be why I feel tired I can't talk that well Right, you lost your words This is the time after I hang out and about this time, I would take a shower and make them wonder,
"Why won't Saerom come back?" Jiwon, it's the place I really love They also sell coffee, it's a cafe Are you okay? Have you had the food there? I haven't I haven't had it either But why did you say that? It looked good We just saw the food
and bought only coffee I thought you all had the bread from there Someone didn't come out
in this photo, who could it be? Who? Whose hand is it in this picture? Let me guess Seoyeon I'm the captain indeed, so proud So annoying Editing point Chaeyoung took it for me Isn't it pretty? It's pretty, let me see, let me see Ah.. 3 seconds late You didn't see it correctly It's that, it's that, the one
where you bite your lips Wow, seriously, Jiwon.. You can swipe to the next one (Jiwon is showing her the pictures she took) Hey, this is my style - Really?
- Yes Something like Jiwon Something like this Hey, you look so good Really? (She feels sorry about it) - The decibel went up too high
- Oh my left ear this time.. Sorry Jiwon, you showed
some talent, didn't you? Saerom, I took them for her,
didn't I do a good job? Chaeyoung took them for me (Found something) Seriously, Jiwon, erase it What happened? I was shocked - Delete it, my picture
- Why? Why? Saerom, swiped to the left just now and
got shocked just now, she's cracking up Chaeyoung.. Make it look pretty Make it pretty quick Okay, let me do it for you So cute, why does Saerom
feel like a baby today? Seoyeon and I took a picture
in front of the mirror some time ago Of so many pictures we took, Seoyeon pressed a heart for only 2 pictures (Can't breathe from laughter) I got so shocked (Can't breathe) Seeing this made me so shocked So I went huh? Seriously? The ones she liked She only saw her face Saerom is being born right now Saerom, upload it Selected by Seoyeon,
of 100 pictures, she selected these Would flovers like this (if I upload it)? Of course (Q. I heard of 100 pictures,
the 2 pictures chosen are incredible..) We took so many pictures in front
of the mirror and she liked 2 of them The hearts Of those 2 photos, in 1 of them, my eyes are not fully open You know what I mean? I was trying to open them like this,
but it got captured in the picture - Seoyeon thinks only about herself, doesn't she?
- No, that's not it.. But it's kind of attractive
in its own way, so I didn't delete it I saw the pictures and I knew that she had
deleted all the ones she disliked already.. So seriously, her eyes are not fully open
but she looks rather cute Sorry Seriously You should've made her look cute It's the original copy What? What? Jiwon.. Jiwon, untie that Jiwon, that's not good It's not? I must've gotten old.. No, I did a bad job Jiwon, let's untie it It looks like it'd hurt Why did you make it all get tangled? You are a good photographer - I am, right?
- Yes Why didn't you take a picture of me? It's a privilege of someone
from the 2nd floor How mean - Mean?
- Yes You know that Seoyeon
always looks good in pictures, right? Oh really? Let me see, let me see Seoyeon is just Why is she so pretty? - Seoyeon
- Seoyeon doesn't have any bad photos What? I have a lot.. Seoyeon has this,
you could call them bad photos but even they look cute Cute and they look like bad photos
but still lovely? It's hard to take bad photos of Seoyeon Let's do a challenge for taking
a bad photo of Seoyeon I took a bad photo of Seoyeon
not too long ago Even when she laughs,
she just looks cute, right? Seoyeon is pretty Seoyeon's bad photo Cute - Cute, right?
- This is cute by the way But it's worse than others But it's not a bad photo, it's not bad
compared to bad pictures of Ur Doesn't it look like me? A squirrel who
has all the cherry blossoms to himself Isn't it cute? It's like me So cute You said you are cute? Jiwon must be hungry for love these days Yes.. She's desperate for it,
she keeps calling me babe On her bed, she calls me babe babe so I said why? and she
kept calling me babe Jiwon.. did you want some love? Yes (Hahaha) Don't I sound like a robot? (Saerom is wearing thick clothes) Take off the towel Hey, hey, hey, hey - There's the camera
- They can't see it, they can't see it (They think Saerom is too cute) She must've gone crazy Why is she so cute these days? She acts so cute.. Like a baby Angry for being so cute(?) Did you just yell at me? Like a baby Jiwon, do you have a t-shirt? Yes, you can wear it Can I wear one for a short time? Is it okay for me to wear this?
It looks a bit dirty I'm a bit messy, you know You can find the orange t-shirt
that I wear every day This one? Should I wear this one? I'll just wear my clothes.. You can wear this (Ready to take off her clothes) No, I'll just keep mine on Why do I want to smack
your forehead so much? I feel like I won't feel so hot
if we just stop chatting Ah, that's boring Ah, that's boring Will you eat later? Won't you eat? I'm hungry You didn't eat anything today? I ate a lot today Almost all of the members wore this,
it's now your turn to wear it Isn't this the must-wear item? It's a bit like a must-wear item Chaeyoung's must-wear item Wait, what's that? (It's Jiwon, the prettiest girl in the world) (Preview for the next episode with Jiwon,
the prettiest girl in the world!) (Channel_9 is coming to an end) (Stay tuned for the last episode) 