Hi I'm Dr. Lindsey Doe, a clinical sexologist I've dedicated my professional life to studying sexuality and sharing what I learned with others. One way of doing this is looking at statistics. Facts or data from large studies that summarize the situation, estimate the experiences of populations and/or make projections about sexuality in the future. Average penis length for example is 5.1 to 5.6 inches erect. What does this tell you? Maybe, how your penis compares to others? Maybe it gives you an idea of size if you haven't seen one before. Statistics aren't always conclusive or comprehensive or important but they're one data point to work from. According to the Durex Sexual Well-Being survey of 26 countries Mexicans and Nigerians reported having the most exciting sex lives U.S. Americans? Meh. Maybe that's not surprising to you Here are some stats that I think are very surprising or at least interesting When asked "Would you say you had sex with someone if the most intimate behavior you engaged in was you touched, fondled or manually stimulated a partner's genitals? 45% of participants answered. Yes. Did you think it would be lower? Higher? Here's a chart of more behaviors and statistics I'm surprised what influenced people's responses. Duration? Who came? If they came? People in the study were less likely to say they'd had sex if they used a condom or if it was anal. Of people engaging in sexual behaviors, despite whether or not they call it sex, 80% will contract a sexually transmitted infection. And the majority, 66% of them won't have symptoms like burning, discharge, itching - nothing that might indicate that something is wrong. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that more than 1 million people are living with HIV in the United States and 1 in every 7 of them don't know it. Please get tested. Here's a stat I recently learned More than 1/3 of people with a uterus will undergo a hysterectomy by age 60 This is shocking to me. Can you imagine if testicles were removed from one in three ball sacks? Fortunately, there's an increase in alternatives to address the concerns that lead to hysterectomies so that over time there will be fewer of these procedures performed. Get one if you need it or want it. If you're unsure please seek a second, third and fourth opinion. Fast stats: the largest LGBTQ+ event in the world to date was São Paulo, Brazil's pride with five million attendees . 22 percent of the US population has engaged in consensual non-monogamy. 15 to 20 percent of men in the US have hired a sex worker around 8 percent in the UK 37 percent in Japan and up to 80 percent in Cambodia I don't have stats for the other genders But I do know that men aren't the only ones who pay for sex 1.8% of sexually active people said that they had been involved in BDSM in the previous year I think it's probably even higher now that people are more educated about engaging safely and negotiating their kinks. What's the safe word? Even in 1953, slightly more than half of people who participated in Kinsey's research said that they responded erratically to being bit. Here are some stats that I want to do a whole separate episode on: change or evolution of sexual orientation with gender transitioning, Auer and colleagues found that 22% of trans men and 33% of trans women shifted their attraction, which is a much higher prevalence than the general population. This article published in the archives of sexual behavior writes "of those who described themselves as unsure of their orientation identity at any point, 66% identified as completely heterosexual at other reports and never went on to describe themselves as a sexual minority. What does that mean to you? What do you take from that? I think one of the most powerful statistics is about the prevalence of abortion. There's still so much shame around it and yet 1 in 4 or 25% of pregnancies end with induced abortions, surgery or medicine, and there's an estimated 10% to 20% more spontaneous abortions when the embryo or fetus dies within the first 5 months. Totalled, that's 35 to 45% of pregnancies that end in abortions that we know of Given that some people don't even know that they're pregnant because embryos are really small The Mayo Clinic holds that the rates are probably even higher like 3 in 4 pregnancies end in abortion What do you take from all of this? How we interpret data can deeply influence the way we think It can affect our outlook on bodies, behaviors, whether or not we're normal or extraordinary! and make us feel part of, or isolated, from. I would encourage you to use statistics as a starting point for curiosity but never to bully or hurt someone. Numbers can help us understand parts of each other and ourselves But we are much more than research and calculations, every individual is unique not quantifiable. Stay curious. One more stat: half of us will experience mental illness in our lives and even more than that will have bouts of confusion, anxiety or depression that deserve attention. I get down when the seasons change and I'm grieving but a lot of my struggling is inexplicable. It's a true illness. There isn't an environmental fix like sunshine and puppies to cure it To nurture my mind, my brain, my biggest sex organ I work with professionals who can help me. BetterHelp.com/sexplanations makes it easy for me to hire a therapist who matches my learning style and health needs. They make it easy for me to message my therapist when and how it works best for me and I'm able to track all the conversations including my feelings and thinking over time so that I can see for myself the improvement. betterhelp.com/sexplanations 
free 7-day trial Make yourself a mental health date. 
Give yourself the care you deserve I think it's probably even higher now that people are more educated about engaging safely and negotiating their kinks. (Coughs) Safeword (sound of bleep over swear word)
(sound of hand clap and laughter) 