Hello Yolo people out there! Yolo Comics! Today is the very special day I couldn't even sleep last night I couldn't sleep because I was so excited Guess who is going to be a target of today's prank? Sung-Eun Kim is going to be the target of today's prank I have never expected to prank to Sung-Eun a.k.a Mi-Dal I was a big fan of Mi-Dal *Mi-Dal was the actress from a famous drama back in 90s I have started to watched the drama from the beginning You would not want to miss today's prank Hyun-Soo is the one who came up this idea Let's get started! 
It's Hyun-Soo Hyun-Soo sets up today's prank to Mi-Dal I've been working really hard to make up this prank   Thank you so much for his help How do you know her? We came close to each other from a TV show I've asked her to have a meeting with me later So, she will be here soon to have a meeting with me later She will bump into a weird person in a mechanic suit The guy will slash car tires and even steal these (Yolos do apologize in advance to Mi-Dal) Let's get started a prank with Hyun-Soo We should find her car first Her car is BMW in blue Let's spread out and find her car   It's not here Come over here for second (Guess this is her car) (Checking her cell phone number) It was really hard to find her car indeed Hyun-Soo is going to make a call to Mi-Dal to find out where she is now I'm a huge fan of Mi-Dal I'm really sorry to Mi-Dal to prank her - Hello?
- Sung-Eun a.k.a Mi-Dal When are you going to leave a home? I'm going to go out soon - See you soon 
- Okay She will be here soon Let's get ready for this (Now you see a group of Mi-Dal's fan) (When is she coming~) (She is here!) (A weird person) (What is he doing?) (Who the hell is he?) (Slash!) Hey! Oh gosh!
Hold...on!!! (What on earth is he doing to my car!) Excuse me.. (Let's check the car first) (Being cautious) (One more time) (Slash the tire at rear) Hey!!
Hang on for sec What the... (What am I supposed to do?) Oh god... (She is anxious) (Where is he?) (The background music gets to the climax) (She is calling to someone) (Should I go and catch him?) (She finds out the bad guy) (Yolo is waiting for the next mission) Hello? Hello? Where are you? (She is calling to someone in urgent) (Yolo moves onto the next mission) (Let's get started the next mission) (The fake mechanic sounds is on) (Freaks out) (What on earth with this sound??) (Oh gosh!! What am I supposed to do?) (She freaks out) (Let's run away with the tire!) (What am I supposed to do...) My tire! Oh my god....Oh my god! Excuse me?
(She's nearly crying) Excu....se... (She gets scared of chasing after him) (She's checking her car first) (What has just happened...?) (Nothing has changed...) (What is this?) (She has Yolo's tool on her hands) (She is confused...) (Yolo decides to reveal the prank 
before she gets too freak out) Hyun-Soo!
(Who are these people?) We are friends of Hyun-Soo (She finds out Hyun-Soo) A spanner attack! (Now she is relieved) They are YouTubers We are huge fans of you I was really freak out too Mi-Dal! (Who is he mimicking of?) You!! (We apology to Mi-Dal once again) I'm sorry that we did freak you out What on earth! (She seems really freak out) (Oh gosh...goose bumps..) (She gets goose bumps on her arms) You have lots of hairs Hyun-Soo has told us that
 you are going to see him today We are really sorry for what we have done (She understands what has just happened) (Oh my god...) How did you know my car was here? How...did you really know? Don't see me as a stalker This is a huge place I remember your car because I've seen a lot (Your cell phone number was placed in your car) That's how you found my car! We have our way to find a target's car You guys are awesome We took quite a time to find your car You were calling to someone 
How was that? Someone I'm close to He lives near here You should call a police next time I was panicked 
I couldn't think straightly I think almost everyone has enjoyed to watch the drama I think almost everyone loves Mi-Dal from the drama Say hello to our subscribers please Hello everyone Hello Yolo Comics subscribers   This is Sung-Eun Kim and 
I played a Mi-Dal from Soon-Poong Obstetrician (We are huge fans of yours) I have recently payed acts at Dae-Hak District but can't do any more due to COVID 19 I've also recently published a book - What's the tile of your book?
- Le'ts walk a distance together You can find the details of her book from "출발현수" YouTube channel She also runs a streaming channel too But she was so wasted on her channel She is not a child that you guys used to know I'm grown up I become a person who gets easily drunk and live alone Wow...you live alone and gets drunk easily What a lovely person you are! You are telling good things about you for sure She says thank you to boys when she gets 100 balloons from her channel He is like an uncle teasing his nephew I saw it with my own eyes If you like to listen "thank you" from her, 
you can give her 100 balloons at her streaming channel Thank you and sorry for the prank That was a whole new experience to me Please give a big support to Sun-Eun Kim :) These videos had been filmed in advance The next target is "윤까꽁" 윤까꽁 has recently bought 
a new car from working so hard Congratulation on your new car! What a good news!
That's why we are here for She has sent me a direct message few days ago She said she has enjoyed watching the stealing auto components prank Our new member(manikin) is supposed to be in the prank but Yolo Park is going to replace his role What would she react to see a real person is placed under his car? I have been on diet to place under a car 
Let's see how she would react to the prank She is going to be here soon for her schedule
Let's get prepared before she comes out Let's get started a prank Aren't you hot? It's cool down here (She's supposed to be here soon) (She's here) (What?) (I know this prank) (Yolos are here!) (I know this prank!) (LMAO) I know what you guys are doing! I know what you are doing!
Come out! I understand that living a life ain't easy! You see! I'm going to take this manikin now! (Holding her hands) (What the...) (Freaks out) You see! I'm going to take this manikin now! 윤 까 꽁 
Peekaboo! (Her eyes are this big?) (What on earth is this?) (Yolo...) What are you doing at here? Because we know that you've already seen our prank! A manikin is supposed to be here, not you You guys have been upgraded to the next level! You guys really piss me off! She is so powerful!
She almost drags me out! I was thinking what thing is so heavy? You've told me that you had seen our prank 
so Yolo Park has been replaced with a manikin Oh...my...god I have never imagined that you guys are going to come since I told you that I had watched the prank I was laughing so much 
because I knew about this prank Thank you for purchasing a car I was really freak out This is a gift for you to celebrate your new car I was really scared! I was really scared! No...don't do this to me I like you so much (Good match!) Congrats for your new car! Any special gift for me? We will get you what you need 
What do you need? We haven't got anything yet Go away! (She's angry) If you pick one, tell us I would like to have a random gift I will see what you guys are going to give me I love you so much Yolo Comics Since she also has a schedule, we are also going to end this video too Give me a present first This is a gift for her 
Drive safe The next target is Song-Hee Han What  - car is hers?
- A Soul (He seems like being out of his mind) She seems like to park her car near the entrance Here got too many cars   Isn't that her car? I think that is her car   Let's check the phone number (Checking a phone number) (Smile) (He seems not in a good condition today) (Found it!) We are here at Song-Hee's house We've already made a plan with "윤까꽁" She gave us Song-Hee's home address and phone number We are ready for the prank already Song-Hee has also bought a new car recently We are going to start a prank when she comes out for her schedule (She's here!) (Can't see her closely) (Yes that is her!) (Let's get started!) (She hasn't found it out yet) (Hammering) (She feels something is wrong) You can use this (What's going on?) Hurry up (That is my car..!) Run! Hey! (What they have done to my car!) (Well...I think I have seen this) (I guess he is...Yolo) Yolo~ (She thinks she know about this) What is that? (She freaks out) I know what you are doing~ Please take this away ~
I'm scared (Song-Hee gets easily freak out) (This parking lot is in silence...too scary) I hate these kind of things This manikin looks like a real person (Why isn't he coming?) I really hate these! This looks like a real person! Peekaboo! GOSH! Song-Hee! (Peekaboo) (Peekaboo) Song-Hee! (She freaks out) (She's crying) Are you crying? It was a prank! (Feel bad for Song-Hee) That was a prank, sorry Manikin! (I thought that was a manikin) (We are sorry) (You are so bad!) We are really sorry, but it's too funny Are you trying to interview me after having done this? It's too much for me to come and find me for doing this I was really freak out We had information that you have recently bought a car (She thinks it's too ridiculous) This is too funny
I've bought this car 2 weeks ago You guys are awesome 까꽁 also has a new car 
We've already done this to her (You guys are so mean!) 까꽁 has asked us for doing this to you She gave a good information about your new car You guys are awesome I thought it was a manikin for sure Thank you so much for buying a new car Go home! Anyone how has a new car really concerns of it whether it has no problem or anything That's why I pressed the key 
I thought I parked in a wrong place I was really freak out (I'm so excited) Drive safe Song-Hee~ Look at the tears 