So here's the thing it doesn't rain in Los Angeles. Not sure if you knew that but like never today's weather Today's weather is gonna be rai-rain? I-I don't know what to say. Uh I don't handle high-pressure well. FU- So the fact that it's raining right now as I'm recording this is, is a little bit weird Let me explain some of you might know that when I was a kid I had a secret relationship with my babysitter Excuse me what yeah, I know that might sound weird you got to watch my last babysitter video It'll make sense oh, and thanks to sugar for voicing the babysitter She's awesome. All you really got to know she was mostly there to watch my little sister and heads up This is a spoiler at the last video ended like this Yeah middle school Alex made out with a high schooler remember when I said it was crazy that it was raining out because this story... ends in the rain, and while the ending is just completely terrible. That's not how it starts so here's the story: I just got home from school with a note. She'd had her brother give me I was showing it to Bobby. "What do you think it says?" "My man the little pimp I bet there's sexy pics" No, dude. It's a handwritten note bro, I bet she sketched it herself He cracked it open and surprise: there was no pictures all it said was tomorrow at 3:00... meet me at work "Even better she's troubled" "What no this isn't a booty call" "Yeah, bro that's where she met you ain't it?" He had a point so the whole next day was kind of a blur all I could think about was the best place to find her power moons And I will never forget ringing that doorbell because this happened "I don't think I can date you anymore" "What?" I was devastated it was not what I was expecting. And I don't know what came over me because I didn't cry I'm just like "I'm never gonna see her again." I uh- "Wait!" "I really should go sorry." I can't believe I did this Alright you don't need to see that part, you know what you need to do? You need to make love to that like button and subscribe and- "I uh have to think about this, sorry" To this day no regrets. I mean if I didn't do that she never would have given it a second thought But now there was still a chance. So the next couple days half excited half wondering what was gonna happen, but then it got weird "Hey, what's everyone whispering about?" "Some kids getting beat up" "What?" "Yeah, some middle schooler kissed a high schooler" "Has she had a boyfriend?" "Sucks to be him, am I right Bobby... anybody?" "That ain't cool, bro... we'll get revenge" I am NOT good with face to fist action, if you don't believe me just watch my how to deal with a bully story But Bobby was dead set on revenge and it involved going to detention "Bro I don't even have detention. I just go cuz that teacher's so dang sexy So sitting in that room was me, Bobby and a couple other kids and the sitter's brother and that's when I realized what Bobby was gonna do "Oh, hey- no- no. What are you writing? Hey-" "Yo studder brother" "Y- y- yes yes, yes?" "Give this to your sis" And just like that he was gone No matter what I said, Bobby would not tell me what was in that note even on the walk home "That girl's evil, bro" "Don't worry about it" Yeah, I was evil almost as evil as my sister "Well hello... brother" "Get away from me. I do not need this right now" "Is somebody scared?" "No" "Do you miss your favorite sitter?" "What?" "She was my sitter MINE. Now it's because of your little 'thing' I can never see her again and now... neither can you." "Wait what did you do?" And it's right about then that it happened it started to rain "You know what brother?" "Some people will believe anything" "If you whisper it to them" "You got played son" "Shoot, shoot, shoot, Bobby what what did that- no" "Uh I said, she was-" "-but on the plus side she still likes you." "I am so screwed" I just remember running through the rain trying to find her brother before she did. Luckily the house she was sitting at was in my neighborhood "Hello?" "Is anybody there?" "Alex?" "Mrs. Haisley?" "What are you doing here?" Hey, is uh is your sitter here?" "Are you sure you're not stalking me? Because I'm pretty sure your friend is" "Uh no, I just need to see the- the  sitter" "She's not here yet. Do you want to come in?" "Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah" "Uh sure, but your friends staying outside" So there we are sitting in her kitchen waiting for the sitter to show up I don't know if you've ever been one of your teachers houses, but for me I was like: "This is so weird i'm at the hot teachers house" Just kept like playing on her computer or something then staring over at me Out of know where she says: "I heard a rumor about a high schooler and a middle schooler. That's not you is it?" "Uh why?" She comes over from the table and she goes: "I've always found young men fascinating" Okay stop it. You know that didn't happen I mean, maybe it did for Bobby not for me But I was a hundred percent only interested in the sitter which is why it hurts so much when this happened "Hello?" "Oh my goodness" That was the not so good phone call about my babysitter Turns out because of the rain she got into a car accident and as you can imagine There's more to the story, and I'm gonna tell you all about it in Part three. I know how much you guys love cliffhangers So you have another video to look forward to Congrats to Whovian for finding the screenshot Good luck finding this week's screenshot scroll back, rewind, find it, tweet me the picture. You guys keep messaging me saying you missed the buy one get three free sale So we're bringing it back all the info down in the description basically you pay for one and you get three more for free It's amazing! I'm It's Alex Clark, and I will see you somewhere ok? Bye 