Welcome back to my channel, if you are new here, my name is Tom Harlock I do not have an intro, but I do have a passport And despite being extensively searched at most airports, I've been on holiday I went to London, and then Amsterdam, and Paris And then Los Angeles, Las Vegas and New York! But now, I am back...but guess who isn't back? Madeleine McCann. Where did she come from? Lester. Where did she go? The Algarve, Portugal These, my friends, are facts, and as you can see I've got plenty more where they came from The disappearance of Madeleine McCann is one of the most widely reported cases of all time Putting Maddy on the front page of a paper would sell tens of thousands of more copies, so here's hoping this video does numbers Madeleine went missing one night in May, 2007, and eleven years on, nobody claims to know anything else about her disappearance And so today, for the good of the people, I've decided to open my box online and deliver the facts And decorate excessively That one terrifies me the most Who or what is the reason that this case remains unsolved. Who knows what happened to Maddy? Was it her parents? Was it the resort?Their friends? Maybe it was the Portuguese police, or the Scottish police! Maybe it was you... ...or maybe it was me. It wasn't me, I was 14 at the time and probably in school Let's start at the start. The McCann's from Leicester, England have booked a holiday via travel company Mark Warner Who are the McCann's you ask? Kate and Gerry, both doctors Amelie and Sean, twins, two years old at the time of Madeleine's disappearance And star of the show, so to speak, three year old Madeleine Beth McCann Born on the 11th of May, 2003, Madeleine is a pretty girl. She has this blob on her right eye, but I think that adds character A normal, charming, family of five. The type of family you would build on the Sims ...if you had the relevant expansion packs On the 28th of April, 2007, the McCann's arrive at the Ocean Club resort in Praia da Luz, which is in the Algarve in southern Portugal Specifically apartment 5A, a ground floor flat in this flat block The McCann's friends, later dubbed the Tapas 7, had organized the vacate and majority of this block during their week stay The resort is not far from the beach, not fully secured. The apartments can be accessed by the public street, and the resorts main patio doors Let's take a second to look at the apartment floor plan. So we have the two bedrooms, the McCann's staying in the ones closest to the patio doors The two twins and Madeleine staying in the second bedroom with the two single beds and the travel cot, Big window right next to the main front door. There's a bathroom separating them, there's a kitchen and a living room It's just a holiday apartment, pretty standard The floors are tiled and the front window has a security shutter This apartment is where Madeleine McCann was last seen. Humans are creature of habit, and the McCann's and their friends were no exception Each day featured breakfast, lunch by the pool, Gerry would have a tennis lesson, the kids would hang out in the kids club creche at the Ocean Club resort And Madeleine's last day was no different. Kate took this photo of Maddy at 2:29. Little did she know, this is gonna be the last photo taken of her daughter After spending the rest of the afternoon at the kids club, Kate collected the children and took them back to the apartment Gerry went for a tennis lesson at 6:00 PM, arrived back at 7:00 PM, at which point the children were getting ready for bed Madeleine was wearing long sleeved white and pink pajamas, and went to bed with her blanket And her favorite toy, "cuddle cat" At 8:30, Kate and Gerry left the apartment and their children sleeping, and made the 80 meter journey toward the Tapas bar Where they had reserved a table every night with their friends whilst their children had slept...in the apartment...alone This specific table was requested every night by the McCann's because they could make eye contact with the apartment building As the crow flies, the apartment was about 55 meters away from the Tapas restaraunt And the adults dining could see, although not all of the apartment, they could see the top of it The patio doors were definitely obstructed, or at least underlit A couple of the adults decided to have baby monitors listening into their children. The McCann's, however, did not, opting to check their children every thirty minutes instead The first check at 9:05 PM was made by Gerry McCann To save faffing around with keys and to allow other adults to check on the other children, the McCann's left the patio door shut, but not locked and on his first check, Gerry found nothing out of the ordinary He entered the apartment via the patio doors, listened out for anything weird, checked on the children - they were sleeping fine - so he left with nothing significant to report. However, upon recollection, Gerry remembers leaving the bedroom door shut And yet when he did his 9:05 check, the bedroom door was wide open Gerry didn't think anything of the door being open, shut it, closed the patio doors, and returned back to the Tapas restaurant Whilst Gerry was being father of the year checking on his children, it was time for Jane Tanner to do the same Jane Tanner is a member of the Tapas 7, and one of the friends that was dining with the McCann's that night On her way to receive her own mother of the year award, she stumbled across Gerry speaking to a tourist on the streets Neither of these two remember Jane Tanner passing them, which is strange, because the street was very narrow Jane continued to make her check on her children At 9:15, Jane came across a man heading east from the McCann apartment 5A carrying a small child The child was shoeless, wearing pink and white pajamas, and the man was described as Mediterranean, mid-30's, wearing beige trousers and a dark jacket Could be anyone. Jane thinks nothing of this, continues to check her children, and goes back to the restaurant We have the McCann's and the Tapas 7 dining, wining, having fun, ignoring their kids, brilliant It's 9:30 and Kate McCann decides that she wants HER mother of the year award, and so she leaves the table to go check on her kids However, Matthew Oldfield - another member of the Tapas 7 - decides that whilst he's checking his kids, he could probably check on the McCann's as well *mocking Oldfield* "Kate, you stay chilling, I'll go and check if the patio doors work, everything will be fine" Matthew completes his "check"...kind of? And nothing seems out of the ordinary ...apart from everything The bedroom door is wide open, he's not sure if the window is shut or not, Not even sure if the children exist because he doesn't see Madeleine or the babies All he does is hear, and listen for the sound of death. He doesn't hear anything, so he heads back to the restaurant. It's 10:00 PM, happy hour is probably over, because Kate decides she's gonna check on her kids As she heads towards the apartment, she goes through the patio doors and towards the babies' bedroom Remember, this is the first time that Kate has checked on the children all night For all she knows, the children have crawled into the toilet and are now sewer babies. She doesn't know anything And I think the tension of not knowing is too much for her, because instead of going into the bedroom and checking on her children, She just pulls the door to and proceeds to shut it. And it is not until then when the door slams that she realizes something's up (Kate speaking) "It just kind of slammed shut" Kate then proceeds to open the bedroom door and immediately she noticed the window's open - wide open The shutters are completely torn. Secondly, she noticed that the babies are still sleeping in their cot, however, when she goes to look on Madeleine and make sure she's sleeping fine, she's not there Her blanket and her cuddle cat are, but there is no Madeleine McCann in this bed Panic sets in and Kate runs back to the main bedroom, hoping that Madeleine has woken up in the middle of the night, crawled into the parent's bed, and gone to sleep in there. It happens, she's three years old As Kate checks each room one by one, it slowly dawns on her - Maddy is missing (Kate speaking) "And that was- that was the first time where, I guess, you know, the panic kicked in" The window's wide open, the babies are still sleeping ...and so Kate leaves the apartment, runs back to the Tapas bar screaming, saying "Madeleine's gone, they've taken her" At 10 past 10, Gerry tells Matthew Oldfield to tell the Ocean Club reception that Madeleine is missing And full missing person protocol is then implemented by the resort. 60 people, including guests and staff, nearly all untrained, search for Madeleine until 4:30 in the morning Anywhere you were near the Luz, you could hear her name being called that night The resort encouraged a theory that Madeleine wasn't abducted and that she, in fact, just went missing by herself Two officers did arrive at 10 past 11 and proceeded to search the area themselves. When they found nothing, they pushed the case up the chain of command Police arrived just after 1:00 AM, and at 2:00 AM, two sniffer dogs turned up. ATM saw the arrival of four search and rescue dogs However, Madeleine was nowhere to be found And from here, a conspiracy theorist's wet dream was born Next month marks the eleven year anniversary of Madeleine's disappearance. She would be fourteen years old if she is still alive today If you're watching this, thanks and subscribe and let me know down in the comments, and secondly... whereyabeen There's a reason that this case is so prolific and so reported, and that's because there has been no convictions There has been no body. Nobody knows where Maddy is, dead or alive Or if they do, they at least haven't said anything as of yet People are intrigued by cases that have no end, that seemingly have no progress, despite all this media and police input Here are some of my main problems with the case: One: science is a gift, especially DNA evidence at a crime scene And I know what you're thinking - "there is no crime scene" - well, we have an apparent break-in We have a missing child, and the last place she was seen was this apartment 5A We have a crime scene. However, Kate later told reporters that the bedroom wasn't even taped off until later on in the evening And up to 20 people entered and exited the room, therefore voiding all evidence whatsoever Gerry even opened and shut the shutters from the indoors and the outdoors to make sure they could be manipulated with Another issue I have is the Tanner sighting If you remember at 9:15, Jane Tanner saw a man carrying a child eastward from the McCann apartment However, it wasn't up until 2013 - six years after the case originally opened - that Scotland Yards Operation Grange decided *mocking Scotland Yard* "That isn't a man we're after at all. In fact, we voided him off, and he was just a tourist picking his kid up from the kids creche." Because there was a kids creche They could've paid five euros to have someone look after their kids So Operation Grange is a government-funded task force, and in 2013, they decided that the main lead of inquiry - the Jane Tanner sighting - was, in fact, false It was obv a British tourist, and the Portuguese police have been barking up the wrong tree This information is good, because it then allows the police to expand the timeline and have a look at alternative possibilities However, it does mean that six years was wasted on a dead lead Moving on from the Tanner sighting, and ignoring their prior tunnel vision, the police then decided to focus in on another sighting At 10:00 PM Mr. and Mrs. Smith, an Irish couple, noticed a man carrying a child around 500 meters away from the McCann's apartment He was heading towards the beach. This sighting, at the time, was taken seriously, so much so that the McCann fund, which we'll speak about in a second, paid privately for an e-fit artist. The artist and the Smiths' worked together in 2008 to come up with these e-fits However, these e-fits were not made pulically available to the media until 2013 by Scotland Yard ...which makes no sense Madeleine's fund, let's touch on this for a second So within days of Madeleine's disappearance, a business had been set up named "Madeleine's Fund." This wasn't a charity, this was a business And up until today, nobody knows how much this business has made. The sole purpose is to find Madeleine There's six directors, I believe, two of which are the McCann's In forty eight hours, the website had fifty million hits, and you could buy merchandise and donate towards the parents, Kate and Gerry, and the board of directors in their search for Madeleine If you couple the professionalism with the website, the fund, the McCann's doing their press tours, you can see how the internet has come up with their favorite theory The McCann's did it, and the abduction theory is complete cover up Let's have a look at the e-fits again. Do they look recognizable? Do you notice anything about them? Well, a lot of people think they look like Gerry McCann One thing I will say is if you leave your children asleep in an apartment in a foreign country, and then one of them goes missing, you will never hear the end about you being a bad parent It still doesn't merit abuse from anyone online at all, especially seeing as we do not know the truth Madeliene's Fund solidifies the idea that there are two facts about crime One: it pays And two: a family member or a friend probably did it Kate and Gerry are doctors, and people have theorized from this that because they went to the Tapas restaurant every night, to ensure that Madeleine and the babies stayed asleep, they sedated them I'm gonna throw this out the window by saying yes, they are both doctors, and anyone worth their salt in medicine, if they mildly overdose the child, they'd probably fix it and if not, they know what to do in an emergency such as that, so I don't think they sedated their kid too much and that Madeliene died and they covered it up I think doctors as a general believe in the Hippocratic oath However, people do still think that when Gerry went to do his 9:00 check on the kids, Maddy was actually dead And in fact, the Smith sighting at 10:00 was Gerry carrying Maddy into the sea to dump her body I don't buy it The Portuguese police, however, did believe that Kate and Gerry were involved, or at least had knowledge about Maddy's disappearance And in September, after DNA evidence revealed that there may or may not be bad blood or something around the car that they rented out and in the apartment, they were named prime suspects. However, this was dropped a year later when the case was closed due to lack of evidence It has also been revealed that the Portuguese police were the source of many media leaks, citing that Kate and Gerry, perhaps, were swingers, and they sold Madeleine to a sex trade The main reason, though of suspicion surrounding the McCann's, is that cadaver dogs, which are dogs that are trained to smell out death, alerted the owner to the scent of death in the McCann's rental car, which they didn't rent out until two weeks after Madeleine was disappeared The second theory, pushed by the McCann's to this day, is abduction Madeliene was taken by a person or a local group, and she may remain alive to this day Kate believes that the note left in the Tapas bar diary about the children being asleep in the apartment was found by somebody shady or at least, told to somebody shady, and that their routine every night was observed and then exploited and somebody came into the apartment and took Madeliene whilst they were dining This theory, if I'm honest, sits a little better with me, as there had been reports of strange men lurking around the apartment block and the apartment block where the McCann's were staying had even been broken into multiple times in the weeks leading up to the McCann's holiday There's not enough minutes in my day to be able to fit in every theory into this video There will always be people asking questions that nobody has the answers to Why did the parents leave their children? Did the resort try to blame the parents to avoid bad business? What did they order at the Tapas bar? Because it was obviously lovely and they had been coming back for more Why did Madeleine's toy smell like death? Ultimately, leaving your child asleep in a foreign country is not the best parenting move by any stretch of the imagination However, the McCann's are still grieving parents whichever way you look at it This case was plagued with inaccuracies from the start, and I truly do not believe we will ever get to the bottom of it However, we have Operation Grange going and further funding by the government Developments could happen every day You never know, Maddy could turn up in these comments ...probably not That's all for today's video, I hope you enjoyed it Make sure to subscribe, thank you for watching, and goodbye DNA - by BTS 