First accidentally discovered in 1926 when
Major A. Cooper shot what he thought was a cheetah but upon closer inspection, he wasn’t
so sure. He wrote about an animal he had shot near
modern-day Harare in Zimbabwe. Describing the animal, he noted its remarkable
similarity to the cheetah, but the body of this individual was covered with fur as thick
as that of a snow leopard and the spots merged to form stripes. He suggested that it could be a cross between
a leopard and a cheetah. After further similar animals were discovered,
it was established that they had non-retractable claws – a characteristic feature of the
cheetah. Once known as Cooper’s Cheetah, English
zoologist Reginald Innes Pocock described it as a new species by the name of Acinonyx
rex ("rex" being Latin for "king", the name translated to "king cheetah"). However, he changed his position on its species
status in 1939. English hunter-naturalist Abel Chapman considered
it to be a colour morph of the spotted cheetah. Spotting a king cheetah in the wild would
be a once in a lifetime opportunity, the territory of the cheetah exists on teh board of Kenya
and Tanzania throughout Zambia, Angola, Zimbabwe and Namibia but most predominate in Botswana. 5 King Cheetahs have been spotted in the wild
since 1927 with one of them be photographed in 1975. In May 1981 two spotted sisters gave birth
at the De Wildt Cheetah and Wildlife Centre (South Africa), and each litter contained
one king cheetah. Each sister had mated with a wild male from
the Transvaal region (where king cheetahs had been recorded). Further king cheetahs were later born at the
Centre.--- In 2012 the cause of this alternative coat pattern was found to be a mutation in
the gene for transmembrane aminopeptidase Q, the same gene responsible for the striped
"mackerel" versus blotchy "classic" patterning seen in tabby cats. Hence, genetically the king cheetah is simply
a variety of the common cheetah and not a separate species. This case is similar to that of the black
panthers.[48] The appearance is caused by reinforcement of a recessive gene. As a result, if two mating cheetahs carry
the mutated gene, then a quarter of their offspring can be expected to be king cheetahs. Their diet consists of porcupine, warthog,
rabbit, gazelle, antelope, springhares, impala, and even ostriches. They drink whatever every 3 or 4 days as they
absorb so much water from their prey. Just as with the cheetah they can run 70 mph
or 112 km/h and go can go from a standstill to 60 mph or 96 km/h in just 3 seconds which
is twice as fast as a racing horse. Despite being dubbed the King Cheetah, cheetahs
are the only cat that cannot roar. It is believed there are only 10 wild King
Cheetahs in the wild and around 50 in captivity. The last known sighting was in 1986 in Kruger
National Park. It requires both parents having the recessive
king cheetah gene to produce a king cheetah cub. In 2014 in Greenwich Zoo in Connecticut a
king cheetah mother gave birth to 8 cubs a world first. Of these cubs 2 of them have been sent to
South Africa to be apart of a breeding program. These 2 cubs won’t be released into the
wild but their offspring will be. Now for this episode’s riddle, the previous
answer was Ice, now see if you can get this one: “What travels around the world but stays
in one spot?” Why not check out another video here or support
me on patreon and until the next one have a good one. 