- Let's jump
- Three, two, one! (Transported from the brunch café
to the amusement park) (KEMAH BOARDWALK, Houston) Wow, the weather's so nice I'm amazed We've come to an amusement park From what I can remember,
one of Ryujin's wishlist for 2020 was hanging out with us all day
in an amusement park She's right (Sweet Lia remembered Ryujin's bucket list)
Although we don't have the whole day (Wish fulfilled) But a part of the day... Um, I have a question - What is it, Yeji?
- Are we getting an all-day pass? (Yay) Come on, let's go! (ITZY's USA TOUR)
(Houston) (Purchasing the all-day ride passes!) Have you ever seen an amusement park
with so few people? Ryujin worked hard to plan this tour,
so I'd better enjoy the rides I'm so excited, to be honest It's been a really long time
since I've been to an amusement park Look how bright the sun is (Great weather and clear sky)
This is unreal I feel like I'm in a dream It's like we rented this park just for us - Wanna go there?
- Yeah! (Picked a ride that lets you
have a look around the entire park) First, we're going to ride the train Who wants to come with me
on that blue swing ride? (Let's all ride together!!) I'm glad we found a ride
that we can all ride together The train's so pretty (All aboard) (Yuna's excited)
Yeah, let's go I'll sit here It's really windy because
we're close to the sea (Having fun on Ryujin's camera)
[Ryujin] Chaeryeong, do it! Come on! [Ryujin] Three, two, one! (Train whistle blowing) So excited we're speeding up! Go faster! Wow, look at the sea (The view of the sea on the train) Wow, it's so pretty This is what I imagined a foreign
amusement park would be like I like it that there are few people
and everything's so colorful (Toot-toot) I've never been to an
amusement park overseas And I've always wanted to come It's a real shame we can't ride
the roller coaster (ITZY at an amusement park.mp4) We'll be riding that one next,
but who is going to ride alone? (The view of the swing ride from the train) - I can't ride by myself
- I can't ride by myself (Chaeryeong and Lia are scared of rides)
Let's do rock, paper, scissors (Since Yeji rode the train by herself)
[Yuna] Then let's do it without Yeji [Charyeong] Do you think we can ride that? I think it's going to be just
scary enough for us to enjoy [Lia] This is the height requirement That means we can ride this, right? (Getting on the swing ride that
Chaeryeong and Lia are scared of) (To determine who gets to ride alone!)
Toss up or lose! Rock, paper, scissors! (Ryujin and Yuna won)
Wow, unbelievable Toss up or lose! Rock, paper, scissors! Rock, paper, scissors! (Chaeryeong has to ride alone...) But no one can ride this alone (Clarifying who rides with whom) We can ride that one over there I'm riding with Ryujin I've never been on a ride with Lia I don't think I've ever been on any ride (Teasing) - I really hate that
- Fine I just learned that (Scared after hearing it'll go higher)
that's not the highest it can go I heard it's going to go higher
Is that right? (Tight)
I'll hold your hand I'll hold you so you don't fly away
Don't worry MIDZY, don't worry! (Meanwhile, Chaeryeong is trying
to get a peace of mind) (Stay calm)
I can do it We're going to have a great time (This is exciting) (The ride is finally taking off!) (It's thrilling just to watch it go) (Totally excited) (Staggering...) It was okay But you should never underestimate it - [Yuna] Shall we ride that one next?
- Sure (The youngest and oldest)
We're going to ride the drop tower Come on, let's go ride the drop tower (I'm lovin' this)
Cool, let's go Run! (Hurry up) It's been a while since I rode one of those (Glance) [Yuna] It's higher than I thought! This is Yuna's first drop ride
She's only been on VR ones (Will Yuna manage to safely ride
her first drop tower?) (Excited) (Covering her eyes with her hat)
I can't do this! - Let's go!
- Covering your eyes will make it scarier (It's starting to go up) Oh? Are we going up? Bye (It has gone up to the top) 3 2 1 DROP! (AHHHHHHHHHH!) (Yuna's hat flew away...) (Going one more time)
[Yeji] Second time! The ride was over too soon,
so I wanted to experience it again properly (Their second drop ride)
We're about to regret for the second time I'm scared Bye, MIDZY! (See you in one piece...) 3 2 1 DROP! (The fall looks so refreshing) [Yuna] But this is a short ride (Ugh) (Shaky) Yuna's better at riding
these things than me It was quite scary, but it would've been
scarier if it had lasted longer - I really--
- That was just manageable (They've all come to ride
the spinning cups) (Slide) (Slide) (Scared Lia has decided to just watch) Have fun, you guys Yuna, look at me (Better take the youngest's photos) Yuna! Yes? Hi! (The spinning cups have start to move
while they were goofing around) Why is this so fast? (This is so fun!) (AHHHHHHHHHH!) [Lia] Say, "MIDZY, I love you" (MIDZY, I love you) (Why does Yeji always come out
staggering at the end of rides) (Ryujin's camera is working nonstop) [Ryujin] Three, two, one! That was a new experience (The Ferris wheel is going up again
when Yeji didn't get off yet) (We're leaving)
- Bye! Thanks for the tour! (Bye, see you~~~) You're all free to go!
The shoot is over (Don't leave me) (Q. How was your day?)
I had a lot of fun It was awesome! [Ryujin] It was so much fun It felt like we were on holiday (They had a lot of fun because
they were together despite busy schedule) [ITZY's PARTY]
(That evening) (Preparing for a pajama party)
But shouldn't we do something (Preparing for a pajama party)
about these first? Let's start with the "Y" (Blowing hard) (Blowing) Why does the air keep leaking? (Busy preparing the party)
Shouldn't we do something about these? (Busy preparing the party)
Shall we hang up these on the curtains? The city we visited just before was Minneapolis and it
snowed a lot there, right? (Making a snowflake)
And since it's winter... (Ta-da)
They might think I'm doing this for fun But this is going to play a huge role
in setting the tone for our party Our new friend Ryusoon
looks great in red It's not Christmas season
but red and green are a must (Lia is decorating Ryusoon)
I got the hang of this (Placing the cookies neatly) (Glance) (Taking a secret bite of the pizza...) (Nom nom...) [Ryujin] Ms. Lia! She feels no shame (A small pajama party before the showcase) Look at each other Try looking at each other - ITZY
- ITZY [Ryujin] You really
look like a pink princess Pink! (A delicious spread which is
essential for a pajama party) (Good food with good company
= The best kind of healing) (It's not a party without games!)
We have games - I love it
- I've been wanting to play games (Forbidden Words Game) (Choose a forbidden word for each other
and the person to say it the most loses) - Can I write it down now?
- Yeah (Choosing forbidden words for each other) - Do I need to come up with yours?
- Yep What should I write? So that you can't find out I think it's going to fall off easily (Knowing the others' speech habit
gives you the upper hand) This comes with a gesture Open your eyes while keeping them closed Open my eyes while keeping them closed? (Done choosing a forbidden word for Yuna) (Forbidden word: Hold on)
(Minus 1 point each time she uses it) (Forbidden word: Hey)
(Minus 1 point each time she uses it) (Forbidden word: Wait a sec)
(Minus 1 point each time she uses it) (Forbidden word: No)
(Minus 1 point each time she uses it) (Forbidden word: But)
(Minus 1 point each time she uses it) (START Forbidden Word Game!)
But if we just stop talking-- (Setting her up)
Why did you do that to me? - What did I do?
- Why did you do that to me? - What do you mean?
- Why would you do that? - What are you getting at?
- Why, why, why? (Scared Lia)
What are you trying to make me say? (Silence)
Why did you do that to me? You can't not talk! - Okay, okay
- They're all not talking on purpose! - You can't not say anything
- If you don't... - You'll get in trouble!
- (Cautious) Right Say something (Like a robot)
I should say something What was the best part
about coming to the U.S.? (This robot is broken)
The amazing scenery... I got it (Did Yuna find out already...?)
Oh! I got it! OK! - Yeji
- Why are you so quiet tonight? - Why aren't you talking?
- I am talking - I was talking
- No, you weren't Then how about saying things
about our roommates? Is there something about your
roommate that bothers you? - No?
- Any complaints about Lia? We were always a great fit So I felt comfortable (Not taking the bait) OK What about you, my original roommate? (On the spot)
What did you think? - Be honest!
- It didn't bother me but... - Be honest!
- This is hard It doesn't bother me but... (The robot is broken again)
She keeps saying the same thing Hey, it didn't bother me but
being your roommate... (Minus 1 point for Yuna)
I... I think I got it Is my word "hey"? - No?
- Got it (Yuna figured out her forbidden word) But Ms. Lia... (Minus 1 point for Lia)
No, but Chaeryeong... [Lia] Is my word "Chaeryeong"? (Lia guessed wrong) That's why you kept
making weird faces at me! (Lia's confident face)
So that I say your name! (Announcing the scores)
Yuna - Because...
- It's "hey", isn't it? (Yuna came in last) But this is mean I knew this would be my word But I just said it to make you laugh (Penalty - Wearing dinosaur pajamas) I look hilarious (The cutest dinosaur on the planet)
Here comes a dinosaur - Get out of my way!
- It's Yonggari! (I Love You Game) (1. Say "I love you" to the next person)
(2. The next person can accept or refuse) (The person to laugh or be confused
with the direction first gets the penalty!) (START Second game)
Who wants to go first? (Going anticlockwise from Yuna)
Yuna, how about you? - Okay
- Hold on Why am I laughing now that
we're about to begin? (START second game for real this time!)
I'll go (About to laugh already) I love you... (Rejected)
Sorry I love you... (Rejected)
Nope (Two rejections in a row)
(Caught between Ryujin and Yeji) (Yuna broke out in laughter) - Hold on!
- Can't believe we're having this much fun (START third round of game!) (A penalty beard)
We should say "I love you" (Lia -> Chaeryeong)
I love you (Chaeryeong -> Ryujin)
I love you (Hard to hold in her laughter
while looking at Yuna) I love you... I love you! (Rejected) (Looking away)
I say no (After overcoming the pain
of being rejected twice...) I love you... (They've begun to snort with laughter) You can't cover your face There'll be no use of physical force (Attempting a second refusal)
Yuna What do you want me to do? - I can't reciprocate your feelings
- I love you! - I can't love you back
- I said I love you (Almost about to cry) (Refuse)
I have someone else! (This close to crying) (I give up)
Fine (Close to breaking point) (They're all unable to say anything) (Her mustache is starting to fall off) (And Ryujin saw that) (Very close) (Time for Ryujin to say
I love you to Chaeryeong) (lol) Chaeryeong (Chaeryeong has resorted to
closing her eyes) I love you... (Rejected)
No, thanks Don't touch me (Whatever)
Your gorgeous hair - Sorry! I said I'm sorry!
- I've always liked you - Go
- I love you (On the verge)
I'm sorry I love you! Ryujin already lost this one (Ryujin smiled broadly) (The penalty goes to Ryujin)
Ryujin showed her teeth (Has a lot to say)
Because I... (The 'Shin' penalty sisters) (So cute) - It looks so great on you, though
- Thanks You might be surprised but
let us say hello first! Two, three! All In Us! Hello, we're ITZY ITZY's party Guys, welcome to our party! Welcome to our party This game was just too fun
to play by ourselves - So we turned it on spontaneously
- We turned on V Live (A fun pajama party with MIDZY) Aren't you put off by that? Look into my eyes - To be honest, it's Ryujin
- Franky, it's Chaeryeong - Hello
- Hello - I'm Lee Chaeryeong
- And I'm Shin Ryujin on - ITZY!
- ITZY? TV We had so much fun!
MIDZY, have a great day - Have a great day!
- Bye! (The third showcase in Houston continues!) (ITZY's third showcase in the U.S.
was on fire as always) (Check it out on TOURBOOK EP. 09) [itzy] 