Physics is all about the motion of things
– how planets and stars move, how electrons and protons move, how the movement of molecules
results in emergent properties like temperature, and so on. The role of relativity, in physics, is to
study how that motion looks from different perspectives. Here I'm using “relativity” in a general
sense, to mean from any different possible perspective, moving, accelerating, or otherwise;
special relativity in particular is concerned with how motion looks just from a limited,
or “special,” set of perspectives. But either way, relativity (special or not)
is about how the motions of things look from different perspectives. Like, if you were looking at the earth and
the moon, depending on where you were and how you were moving, it might look like the
moon is moving around the earth in a giant circle, or back and forth on a straight line,
or that the earth and moon together are tracing out a spiralling path through space. But if the motion of the earth and moon can
be described in such different ways, what does any one of these descriptions actually
tell us about the earth and moon? Is one of them “right” and the others
“wrong”? Is there some preferred perspective for observing
the earth and moon that gets closer to the true description of what's happening? It's the goal of relativity to answer these
kinds of questions. In fact, relativity can essentially be summed
up as two basic ideas: 1. To figure out how objects and their motion
look from different perspectives, and 2. To notice which properties of objects and
motion don't look different from different perspectives. We've already given an example of number 1,
with different ways the motion of the earth and moon can look from different perspectives. Number 2, the idea of finding things that
don't look different from these perspectives – that's a little trickier. In the earth and moon case, for example, all
three perspectives appear quite different. But after a while, you might notice that regardless
of the perspective, the maximum physical distance between the earth and the moon appears to
be the same. So you might say “aha! There's something that's independent of perspective! Maybe it's a fundamental property of the earth-moon
system, and not just an artifact of my particular point of view!” And this is why relativity is so important
in physics: by studying what changes and what doesn't about a physical system when you change
your perspective, you are zeroing in on universal truths – literally. Facts that remain true from many perspectives
throughout the universe (like, perhaps that the distance between the earth and the moon
is 384399 kilometers), are literally more universal than a fact that only holds true
at a single place and time (like, that the angle between the moon and earth is 150 degrees). Relativity is a way of thinking that helps
you to evaluate how universal a given truth is. Ok, enough philosophizing. To make all this tangible, we need a rigorous
way of describing moving things and of describing changes to how that motion looks when you
change your perspective. We're ultimately going to build up to special
relativity, which has to do with motion over time, but we'll start with non-moving things
just to get a sense of how intuitive relativity can be. You're probably familiar with specifying the
position of a cat on a plane using xy coordinates: this cat is three tick marks to the right
of our point of reference, and two tick marks up, so we say it's at position x=3 and y=2,
which typically gets written as just a pair of numbers like (3,2). However, (3,2) is not a universal truth – I
mean, it's just based on where I'm standing, and how I'm oriented. But over here, where you are, maybe you're
rotated by 30 degrees, and you made the tick marks closer together, and suddenly the cat
is at a different position: x=9, y=9. Even though the cat hasn't moved. In fact, it's possible to specify the cat's
position using any x and y values we want, depending on our point of reference: which
corresponds mathematically to where we put our axes and how we orient and scale them. So clearly, specifying the position of something
is not a universal truth. Or, in relativity parlance, “position is
relative.” A more universal, or absolute, truth can be
found if you have two cats: let's say they're at x=0, y=0, and x=5, y=0. And I'm going to stop drawing a person at
the origin point of the axes from now on, but you should remember that the axes we use
represent a particular perspective and orientation from which we measure things. Ok, so The distance between these two cats
is clearly 5 – they're at the same y value and their x values differ by 5. If we move and rotate our point of reference
now, the cats are at positions... uh, x=1, y=1 and x=5, y=4. So they differ by 4 in the new x direction
and 3 in the new y direction. But the overall distance between the cats,
which we can find using the pythagorean theorem, is the square root of 4 squared plus 3 squared,
which is the square root of 25 which is 5. Which is the same distance we calculated with
the original axes! This turns out to be a general truth: on a
plane, the distance between two things doesn't change if you change your perspective just
by shifting your point of reference or your orientation. I like to think about this as similar to how
if I take a piece of paper, and slide it around and rotate it, I haven't actually changed
anything on the piece of paper. Or, in relativity parlance, “distances are
absolute.” The geometric intuition for this is that you
can move your axes around, slide them up and down, and rigidly rotate them, without affecting
your description of the distance between two things. If you like, we can make this mathematically
precise by calling the original coordinates x and y, and the new coordinates x new and
y new; then when we've slid the x axis an amount Delta x (technically called a “translation
by Delta x”), we say that x new=x-Delta x, and when we slide the y axis by an amount
Delta y (technically called a “translation by Delta y”) we say that y new=y-Delta y. The minus sign is there because if you slide
your origin point closer to something, its new x and y coordinates will be smaller. Changes of orientation are a little fancier,
but it's really just some geometry: if you re-orient the x and y axes counterclockwise
by an angle theta, the new coordinates look like x new=x times cos theta minus y times
sin theta and y new = y times cos theta plus x times sin theta. If you want a fun algebra exercise, you can
use these equations (or even their 3D counterparts!) to check that indeed that the distance between
two points doesn't change when you slide or rotate your axes. But the messiness of all the details here
really clouds the simplicity of what's going on. The important geometric idea I want you to
remember is that rotating and sliding axes doesn't change the distance between two points. However, the distance between two points does
change if we're allowed to change the spacing of the tick marks! If when we change our axes we also double
the tick marks, then the distance between the cats becomes 10, not 5. Turns out distance, measured in numbers, is
not so universal... But there is a more universal truth! Suppose we have a stick that's 1 tick mark
long (according to the original axes) – conventionally this thing might be called a “meter” stick;
and now we can say “the two cats are 5 sticks apart.” When we again move and rotate our axes and
change the spacing of the tick marks, the cats are again 10 tick marks apart, but the
stick is also now 2 tick marks long, so the distance between the cats is still 10/2, or
5 sticks. This is an example of an even more general
physical truth: the distance between two things, measured in terms of another physical thing,
doesn't change when you change your perspective by shifting your point of reference or orientation
or the spacing of your tick marks. In relativity parlance, we'd say that “the
ratio of two distances is absolute.” Basically, if you want to actually describe
a distance, you can't just specify a number, like, I'm five away from you – you have
to say what you're measuring distance in terms of, and what number of those things your distance
is equal to. This is kind of a subtle point and is very
important if you're interested in metrology, the study of measurement and units. But because it doesn't really play a major
role in special relativity, from now on I'm going to be a bit sloppy and just assume that
whenever we're talking about distances, we're talking about distances not as numbers but
in terms of some reference distance, like meters, or cats, or whatever. And the same will apply to times: when we
talk about a time interval, we'll assume it's a time interval in terms of some reference
time, like the second (which is based off of how long it takes a certain electromagnetic
wave to vibrate once). Which brings us to the motion of objects over
time! To describe a moving object, it's customary
to use a horizontal coordinate axis for the left-right x position, but instead of using
the vertical axis to represent height y, we use it to represent time t. So for something not moving, something that
stays at the same position x at time t=0, t=1, t=2, and so on, we draw a straight vertical
line through x. For something moving one meter per second
to the right, we draw a line that goes one meter to the right for every second that transpires
vertically. It's important to note that we're not saying
that the object is moving through 2D space along a 45 degree line – the object is moving
purely 1-dimensionally along the x axis, and we're just showing those different one-dimensional
positions as time passes. This whole “time on the vertical axis”
thing can also be a bit weird at first since in most other situations you've probably encountered
time plotted on a horizontal axis; but vertical time has its merits and it's convention at
this point, so it's worth getting used to. I like to think of each horizontal line as
representing a different snapshot of a scene. We could show the snapshots one after another
as time actually passes, of course, but it's useful to be able to see all of the snapshots
at once, so if we display each snapshot at a consecutive vertical position, we get a
nice representation in a single static image of motion that normally takes place over time. This geometric way of representing motion
over time is called a “space-time” diagram, and it's so central to intuitively understanding
relativity that it's worth doing a few more examples. Though if you feel comfortable with space-time
diagrams, world-lines, and so on, by all means, skip ahead. Say we have a cat attached to a spring, bouncing
back and forth, left and right. If we plot this motion on a spacetime diagram,
as time passes we see the cat move left and right, leaving behind a trace in the shape
of a sine wave. On the other hand, if we're given a spacetime
diagram and want to recover the motion of the cat, we simply slide the diagram downwards
at a constant rate and move the cat left and right so that it follows along the traced-out
path. This is important: a traced-out path in a
spacetime diagram is a faithful recording of an object's motion. And these paths are called “world-lines,”
presumably because they show where in the world the object has gone (though by “world”
we often mean “solar system” or “universe”). Any particular point on a worldline has coordinates
t and x, which we write as a pair telling us for time t what position x the object was
located. So far we've just been representing one-dimensional
motion on our spacetime diagrams – just one spatial direction the object is moving
in, and then time as the vertical axis. If we want to use a spacetime diagram to represent
motion in two dimensions, like the moon orbiting the earth, we actually need three dimensions
to do so: the two horizontal directions for the moon and earth to move in, and the vertical
direction to trace out the snapshots as time passes. Pretty cool, huh! But if you have multiple particles moving
complicatedly, this can get really messy on a 2D screen. And it's physically impossible to make a full
spacetime diagram for three dimensional motion, because you would need four spatial dimensions
to do so: three horizontal directions for the spatial motion, and a vertical direction
for time. Which of course is impossible in our universe
with its measly three spatial dimensions. So physicists normally restrict their spacetime
diagrams to just one or two spatial dimensions, and time going vertically. So, how does relativity work with spacetime
diagrams? That is, now that we know how to describe
motion geometrically, how do changes in perspective affect that description? Let's take as an example me staying put right
at x=0, and a cat moving one meter per second to the right away from me, starting at time
t=0. It may not surprise you to notice that when
you slide the x axis to the left or right, the particular x positions of me and the cat
at any particular time change, but the distance between us doesn't. At time t=0 we're still 0 meters apart, at
time t=2 we're 2 meters apart, and so on. So you can slide the x axis back and forth
however you like. Similarly, if you slide the time axis up and
down, the absolute time when the cat starts moving away from me changes, but time intervals
don't change: the cat still takes 2 seconds to get 2 meters away from me. So you can slide the t axis up and down, and
distances in time are left unchanged. And if we have 2-dimensional motion, then
changes in the orientation of the two spatial axes don't change the distances between objects
at any particular time: essentially, you can re-orient the xy axes however you like. So the relativity we applied to purely spatial
diagrams applies pretty well to space-time diagrams, too. To summarize the major takeaways: relativity
is about understanding how changes in perspective do or don't affect motion. For objects in space, we can describe motion
over time geometrically using spacetime diagrams, and spacetime diagrams can help us see how
changes of perspective affect how the motion of objects looks. Like how changing your position and orientation
correspond to sliding the axes around and rigidly changing the orientation of the spatial
axes, and yet these transformations don't change the spatial distance between two points
at the same time or the temporal distance between two points at the same location in
space. However, all of this relativity is static:
and by that I mean that we haven't yet talked about how motion looks from a perspective
that is itself moving. That's ultimately the key to special relativity,
and will be the subject of the next video. 