Hey! Welcome to SpeedVegas, where the coolest guys in Vegas come, to ride the fastest cars! Yall wanna get fuckin' weird? let's REV IT UP *Ethan Klein Car Noises and Ethan Klein Cough™ * These babies top out about 2, 3, 400 miles per hour. That's right, I will be breaking today the land speed limit! *Ethan Klein Car Noises ™* Hila, are you coming? Are you coming? Crank it up to 5th gear Hila, lets go! Pfft. That guy's fuckin' slow dude, he's a disgrace to the Ferrari I wouldn't let that fuckin' guy in my garage, if I was Tai Lopez Have you.. Have you heard of Tai Lopez? -Tai Lopez? -Yeah. -No. He's like a.. He's like.. He's into Ferraris. Oh okay. This is a worthy investment. This could be something to spend literally every fucking dollar we own on. Seems like something that would be a good future investment for me. And do you got a break over there right? -I do have a brake. 'K, that's good. Keep a close... keep your foot ON it. *laughs* -I will make sure. Wooooo! -Now Accelerate! -Oh my god. -Now this whole section we can go full throttle, so accelerate. Ethan: full throttle? -Yes. Ethan: Fuckin' full throttle? -Hold it down, don't lift. Turn here Ethan: Oh my godddddd. - See, when you do this on the gas- brake, brake, brake, brake, brake. -Now back in the gas, let it come out to the right -Full throttle! -Push that pedal all the way down, keep it down. -Back left, stay on it, full throttle! Shift up. -Stay on it, don't come off the gas like that. Keep goin' -Come back left, all the way over, hook into the corner. Turn into that orange... -Careful, it's a little slick out here. Both: WOOO -Crap. -Brake! Brake, brake. Turn. Brakeeeee. I got ya! -Dont brake! Ethan: DJ Khaled Woo ™ Ethan: Fuckkk me. *guy laughs at Ethan* -Accelerate that way. Ethan: I'm cool, I'm cool with the Prius dude. -Full throttle, you're doin' good man. Take this corner, turn more, turn more,  roll on the gas, off the gas here -Nice and smooth, full throttle, full throttle! -Now we're gonna slow it down here... -That was five laps, we're just gonna do a cool-down lap here Ethan: Well, I 'prec- you definitely saved my life a couple times there *laughs* I could tell -I saved- we saved- I saved OUR lives Ethan: You were a little scared. You were a lil frightened on a couple of those turns Ethan: How did I do? Just be... Just be real with me dude. -Okay so, I'll give you like a 6 out of 10. Ethan: 6 out of 10? I'll take that, fuck He said uh, he thinks I could be a pro Hila, laughing: yeah? He told me I could go pro. He said just buy one, go hit the 101, just floor it, you'll be FINE He said don't worry about anything. He said safety.. Don't worry about your safety. No fear. -No seatbelt He said no fear Ethan: Just think DJ Khaled. What would, fuckin DJ Khaled do? Hila: Maybe I'll go get water before. Ethan: you want water? Hila: Yeah -Okay. Go ahead. Ethan: wow Ethan: I'm sorry dude, that's really embarrassing. - It's alright Ethan: Wow, dude, you got the water? Ethan: Water? Did you take a swig of whiskey or water? What the hell did you do in there? Ethan: Any last words? Papa bless. -Maintain speed. -Turn tight with this one -Back in the gas more, stay allll the way right -Very good. Keep it right, just stay all the way to the right Ethan: she's going like 20 miles per hour Get it, Hila! Get ittttt -Now get to the safe packs, accelerate, accelerate out to the right side! Ethan: She's out here in a $250,000 ferrari, going 30 miles per hour. *laughs* Ethan: she's a sweet kid though. Here she goes. Floor it. He's screaming right now, he's screaming inside 'FLOOR IT' -Stay on it, stay on it. Keep going. Shift up. Keep going. Go hard, let's see how fast we can go -Stay on it. Now off the gas, no brakes, TURN. -Turn, turn, gotta keep going. You're doin' good! -No brake, turn. Woah woah woah woah. No gas. Ethan: oh my god. ohhh god. she's gettin' killed out there. -Okay, (Hila: sorry!) when I say, uh, when I say 'no brake,' don't hit the gas. Okay, okay, go ahead. Hila: shit. -Your're good, you're good. Don't worry. Full throttle! That was fun. Ethan: I heard you guys had a whoopsie-daisy! Ethan: I didn't see it ,what happened? Hila: You didn't see it??? Ethan:I mean I couldn't see it from up there. Hila: ohhh. Ethan: Dude doesn't.. dude looks scared. -We got a little sideways. Ethan: come on, what the fuck? How'd you do that? Ethan: So what does she get on a scale on 1 to 10, brutally honest? -Umm, maybe a 2. Ethan: Maybe a two? DAMNNNNN. *all laugh* Well it's not a 1. Coulda been worse. Ethan: So we are doing the uh, Tokyo Drift, 2 fast 2 furious challenge over here With, uh, what's your name? -Trevor Trevor. He's out here tryin' to spook us. What would you rate this, how would you rate this on the uh, 2 fast 2 furious scale? Which sequel is this from? Trevor: I would say this is definitely fast 5. Ethan: This is more fast 5, than fast 7 would you say? Trevor: Yeah Ethan: Rest in peace Paul Walker. Do you see yourself more as a Vin Diesel or a Paul Walker type of 2 fast 2 furious drifter? Trevor: Ya know, I'm definitely a Paul Walker guy. I mean I got my chucks on right now Ethan: Nah I feel you dawg, pound it Ethan: Maybe focus on the driving, and less CHITCHAT  about 2 fast 2 furious! Trevor: Hey my bad! Ethan: focus on the road there! Trevor: I can do both! Ethan: fuckin' hell Trevor: 2 chatty 2 furious Ethan: 2 chatty, 2 fuckin' furious. Goddamn BOI. Shit. Trevor: Perfect! Ethan: alright, you can just roll off the course right up here- Trevor: Oh I'm gonna us roll right into a ditch Trevor: Help! Hila: OH SHIT NO Hila: alright. Ethan: GOT EMMMMMM Ethan: That's a fuckin' skid BOI God DAMN. *DJ Khaled Woo ™ * Trevor: there we go, that's how we get the groceries. *Ethan Klein Cough ™* *Ethan Klein Cough ™* Hila: You okay? Ethan: FUCK YOU, TREVOR! Hila: Oh my god. Hey baby, hop in, you wanna go for a ride? Come take a wild ride with me, baby. (ok papa i will) You ever, you ever drive with a bad boy before, in a bad boy car? Hila: no. Baby, you're about to ride.. the adventure of your lifetime Let's go. And now I'm gonna actually floor it, *Hila Klein Giggle ™* I was flooring it that whole time, dude 