Nick: [gasp] Aaron: Wow Umu: *dramatic inhale* AAAA! Okay, so the next two songs that you'll be reacting to will be released on Mother's Day for- Fiona: Hi mom! Hi Jessica! Daniel: Hi mom, I'm not gonna say your first name because you'll kill me- [Umu and F laugh] -in Korean, but I love you eomma (Korean for mom). Elizabeth: Aww
Owen: Shout out to moms
Umu: Shout out to moms~
O: Yeah Umu: First you'll be reacting to Day6 the rock band and their song, 'I'll Try,' released in 2017. The member Wonpil who plays the keyboards in the band was inspired by the unconditional love our parents give us while writing the lyrics. That, quote: "when things are hard. You can lean on me and rest I'll hold you and accept you for who you are." This song was composed by him, Mr Cho and Minkyung Lee. And, so when you listen to this just try to think of our mothers and their love for us. Isaac: "GO TO CRAM SCHOOL" I: "GO PRACTICE!"
Kevin: No!  Stop, stop. Three two- O: I really like the timbre of the piano I like how it was recorded. And it seems like it's just played very effortlessly, whoever is doing it just felt so relaxed and comfortable as they playing were it and it translates to the ear. I: [sings the note]
K: Ooh nice, minor seven. Brianna: I love the chromaticism.
James: Oh my god the chords are so pretty! B: I really like the phrasing and his voice, like he connects each note, like, he sings through them. Henry: Oh Up, up, up it's kind of building in pitch, and then it's falling Oh that's really good phrase. Build up, and then back- float down O: That was a good deception, I like that There- I really like where the the piano is like leading to chords and then going away from them in really satisfying ways. Like you expect what's gonna happen very clearly. Elizabeth: And now- Damn that was a transition. 
O: Yeah, that was crazy [mimics the transition] F: [mimicking guitar] Arpeggiated chords in the guitar A: I like that.  I don't know what that is the [sings the vocal melody]. It like delays resolution a little bit. O: Oh, the drummer is like Ringo Starr.  He's so relaxed and on the backbeat. [Isaac sings along][He actually sings in time originally but I made an edit last minute that messed up the timing *sigh] K: I like how the chorus starts with a half diminished chord. That's pretty cool. [Isaac continues to sing along] A: It sounds like Gloria-
N: I like the drum fill too A: Oh! That's a little like showtune-y [sings the piano part] N: Yeah, that's what I was thinking at the very beginning of the song too, when they just have the piano. It's a little showtune-y. A: OH YEAH!
N: WOOH! *nods in approval* O: Oh! Someone knows [nods] stuff... on piano. A: Ohh *Umu motions behind camera for Aaron to put both headphones on* [N gasps] A: Wow [N gasps again, but more intense] B: Ooooh!
J: Really pretty, oh my god. B:  There's no rhythm section, nothing, it's just their voices. J: Wow, he's really up there. [B sings along] Ohhh, wow. A: That was such a cool acapella section like [claps]
N: Just blown away. Cloud: Are you crying? 
H: *big sigh* Hope I've been a good son. C: I really like the- the main, it was like I'll accept you, I'll try,
H: I'll try yeah.
C: yeah. H: Cuz that's really C: That's a mood if I didn't know what the words were and if I didn't hear you explain it to us before, I would've thought that was a Christmas song, (H: Which-) and I'm not even kidding because it had- H: I understand, yeah.
C: It even had the [sings part] Like at one point and I was like [sings the part again but continuing like in Excelsis Deo] That's not where- they went a little bit higher like yeah, there'd a lot of nice Christmas motion in there. A: They took like different sequences like the gloria in Excelsis Deo, well, it's like really all Christmas music is basically like one big exercise on-
N: yeah, you just do your counterpoint (A: Yeah) and it works. But so I thought it was really inventive how they gave you like the [sings the part] But they didn't exactly end on the "duh" and then so it went somewhere else but you still had that like, slight bit of... ear recognition from that, so I think that was that was cool. I think the way that they uh, they didn't really do anything too fancy with it, really... made it what it is 'cause it feels very selfless. It's like this isn't really about anyone who's singing, it's about like who they're singing it to and that's just like such a sweet thing to be able to put into a song. And I think they did a really wonderful job with that. The piano writing was like impeccable. Like the way- Just all the rolls, like were- were so nice and like the harmonic choices that they chose... I thought they did a good job of like, portraying the line but letting the harmonies that the piano was outlying kind of like speak for itself. Like I thought that's where a lot of the emotional content came from, was like the clashing... bits and like the resolutions and the invasions and stuff. I thought that was where the emotional content really was. B: I thought the emotional content was really with their voices because like- I feel like this one was really stripped down. You really didn't have a whole rhythm section 'till like the main like big like final chorus and still like after that, they just like went into like harmony with themselves. Like it felt like a- a choir? Like what are those glee choirs called? Is it just like a Glee or just like an acapella? It felt like an acapella group. 
J: Yeah B: And I feel like the main focus of the song was their voices, and they really did showcase every single person's voice. I would have liked if they would have used more harmony throughout, but I guess this was more soloistic, like they were trying to like, give each person like their own time to shine and they really like blended voice- blended really well when they had their a capella section. I: I think the acapella at the end was very well placed considering that an acapella is build up on one another so when you incorporate it to the theme of mothers they do- I dunno, it was like listening to my mother talk about her mother and her- my grandmother talking about her mother, it's just uhh. K: Intergenerational 
I: Yeah! There's a system that's passed on between generations, and you can't- it's very- very hard to say that "I built myself." It's like, nahhh, I don't think so.  Because you have other- whether if you have a parent or guardian, they usually teach you about the past and then they pass it on. So there's aspect of building on one another.
Umu: Ooh I: I thought was neat. Very well placed. K: Um, I do think the verse... the verse isn't as melodically... like maybe that's the point though. See I think Day6 they're very great melody writers. But I think with this song the verse is like decidedly low-key before the chorus starts going [sings part from the chorus] all those big leaps and the nice scales and the cool chords. I like how the verse is a bit simpler and then the chorus is a bit more complex and bit more sequential. That's you know, that's a tried and true formula, but melodically yeah- I just drew hear- heard the verse and I was like man, this isn't really gripping me yet, and then I heard the chorus and like ah, there it is (Umu & Isaac: Mm), yeah.
Umu: Makes sense. C: I love that you were talking about the vocal- (contours and stuff and a capella, Henry)
H: I just like their melodies yeah, they- they move quite a bit, but they're not hard to catch on to you could sing it back, yeah. 
C: Yeah. H: So- like in a Christmas carol, and it ends too with... I don't know how many part harmony that was, but it was a cappella Umu: Five!  Or no there was four, but five singers like trading off. H: Yeah, so four part harmony, was really really pretty. C: I do like when- when a song you can like feel that motion like, you know when you're soaring up (H: Yeah) and like 'cause like sometimes it's nice to be surprised by where we're going and then sometimes like you want to just feel but you want you want the anticipation of like we're gonna go up, up, and then highest. 
Umu: Mhm C: Yeah, that was very satisfying. 
H: Yeah. O: The- whoever was the pianist, I like their voicings a lot-
Umu: That's Wonpil, who wrote the song. O: Oh, really? 
Umu: Yeah.
O: Very talented. I think that the voice in the chord that he chose really helped, like not just tension for- for the the chords that were leading places, and then release for the ones that- for the resolutions, but also it felt like the way that he voiced things especially with the uh, dramatic tension, it felt- the chords felt immobile almost like they couldn't lead anywhere, and then when they finally relaxed, it felt so much more satisfying because it was like impossible in my mind that they could actually get there. E: yeah, there was- there was definitely that one like in there where it was like [piano imitation] yeah, which I think that's Tch- the Tchaikovsky's first piano concerto. One of the like, best [Owen keeps dramatically imitating piano playing]- it's honestly one of the best piano concertos ever (O: Yeah) and Tchaikovsky was an amazing melodist and that like sweeping- like piano octaves and you kind of hear the roll the- the notes at the bottom- Like that's such a classical sound, also a capella is really cool. And I think the great thing about a cappella is that, especially in this- in this context as it's a ballad it feels very intimate. Especially if you're talking about your mom and you know, like motherly love I think like that intimate setting is super appropriate. Umu: Okay, the next mother themed song that you'll be reacting to is actually by a girl group called Mamamoo. So you've heard this before Aaron. 
A: Yeah, I have heard this right? 
Umu: Yeah. (A: Okay) A b-side song called Hello Mama released from the reality in black 2019 album. The group says that through this album they want to send a message of hope and tell people that beauty comes from the inside. The song Hello Mama is a letter to their moms expressing their love. The lyrics talk about the hard times we experience in life, and how much we need our moms even as we become adults and live our own lives. J: Mmmmm. K: The song is about how beauty comes from our mamas! Three, two, one. B: Violin [sings] J: Ooh 
[B keeps singing the notes of the song] D: This in compound meter
F: I like the rain drums, like the brushes they use on drums make that rain sound. (D: Mm) This sounds like a cloudy day song. E: Oh she has such a good voice.
O: That was really pretty. The backing vocals how it rolls in sooo quietly A: I love that it's like the ebb and flow of this melody, that we start low and then it comes up and then just like [gestures]. It's so good. AaaAa The fadeaways are so like elegant and rehearsed. Thank you! K: Whoa, Moonbyul doing the free- the free rhythms [mimics rhythms] Hey, hey subdividing H: Ohh okay, that's a little out of the rhythm (since she was singing duple rhythms in a triple meter). C: Her voice is an interesting contrast. H: Yeah, it's got a, like a darker tone to it. I like it! *big smile* A: It's so fun to like hear them harmonize with each other, it's just... ahh [F sings the line] That was lovely. D: It's very like, lullaby-esque (F: Mhm) because of the compound (meter). F: This sounds like Beethoven the [sings part that sounds like Beethoven] Like [makes slidey noises]
[D laughs] That's how she's singing. Ahh! That melody is really unique. H: Oh, right into the bridge, okay. I: Woah!  We're moving somewhere!
K: Yeah right, Moonbyul is the- (I: course movement too!) is our subdivision queen in this song. [Isaac makes a soft explosion noise?] E: Are you happy? 
O: that's an upright bass, right there A: Man, ugh so many ballads today. I'm gonna cry.
(sorry. not sorry 😘 -umu) J: I love all their timbres, they're so different Huh. Interesting so they ended on like a- 
Umu: Like you kind of expect it to go ~jazz chord~ J: Yeah, but it didn't. It didn't even- didn't even resolve. They kinda just let it fade. I: See, that's the thing with kpop. They are able to just allocate each time... to each of the vocalists, just enough so that they can have their own limelight. And so when they say hey mama, I thought, it's like wow, you could think it as they're directing it to us like, oh make us think about it, or maybe it's just them directing to their own mothers. Nice thought process there. But there's also the, I guess is the appreciation of how they're approaching the music because I think what was that- what was that girl I just said her name-
K: Wheein I: In the very beginning when I heard her sing I thought, ha! She actually put a lot of effort into all the little ends of the phrases the beginning of the phrases also the middle of the phrase and I thought wow, they're really putting their heart into it. And I thought it was cool.
K: Yeah, I like it a lot too I think every- I can tell that every member offers something different in this song and usually Isaac is the one that notices that and I- that just flies past me, but this one is one where I can tell that, Moonbyul is doing all of her subdivisions, Solar's doing all her high- high notes and it's so great! I hear the difference between every member, and they're all singing the same message and even though, you know, there may not be an a capella section like the Day6 song, but I could still feel the unity and (I: Mm) how the song, the song is one... entity. H: I think- I didn't realize how much I really liked all of their voices together. They're very distinct, but it really fills, I think, the gap of what you want to hear. You know, you have a- two brighter voices and two kind of deeper voices, and I think Moonhyul?
Umu: Moonbyul H: Moonbyul, every time she or at least a lot of times she sang she kind of- 
C: Isn't she usually the rapper?
H: she broke out of the 6/8 rhythm.
C: Okay H: yeah yeah yeah, she kinda had a different-
C: I don't know if I have heard her sing sing H: I don't- I thought- I like her voice.
C: But I liked it. H: I think it like, she got into like a different, I'd say like some kind of a syncopation. (C: Yeah, I thought that too) to ? the 6/8 bit, and it was really interesting. I really like that. A:Were they their own backup singers?
Umu: Mhm! A: Okay. Okay. I thought that was cool too (N: Yeah) because I thought that they all took turns to like support each other in a way and then you heard this like- really like kind of off in the back light... nice little like [mimics background vocal part]
Umu: Yeah A: The oohs (N: Yeah) and the aahs, I just- yeah. B: I kind of like this one better. Yeah, and I feel like they were super emotional throughout. Like they would like, a lot of like, there's one where she was like whispering, she was talking, like (J: Mm) I feel like those are like effects a lot of vocalist use to portray like- like a vulnerability with them, but I did just enjoy this one more because I was able to just like feel like, a more calming feeling, and I feel like that's what you get from your mom, it's just like calm. C: I think for channeling mom- mom vibes I would go I'll try. I think that would hit me- that one hits me more in the feels. H: I'll try, I felt more... emotional. This one, Hello mama, I felt more comforted. Umu and Cloud: Mmmm. I'll trying made me- like realize how much I love and miss my mom right now, and Hello Mama made meee like really think back on... the kind of, happiness that I've had with my mom and like the time we spent together and how awesome that was. Awesome and like, I feel good I feel safe. Umu: Aww
C: Interesting. 
H: Yeahhh. Umu: To end this video, I would love for you to get the personalized message to your mom if you feel comfortable with that. O: Yeah. 
[E laughs] O: Well I mean- 
E: Would you'd like to share with the class? O: My mom is really cool. She cares so much and works really hard and I think also like that that message like no matter how much you mess up or how stupid you are, like she'll always be like, just come on. It's okay, like I love you and Love your mom. It's great. A: Hi mom! It's Aaron. I... feel very grateful and proud of my mom. She has this amazing career and also an amazing family. And I think that I definitely look up to my mom in terms of her just like... level-headedness in really all situations, and so I think that having a mom like that has really helped me like curb a lot of anxiety problems that I have had and just... the growing pains of the teenage years and stuff. I'm just- I don't know. I'm just really proud that she's my mom and proud that I take after her in so many of my qualities and stuff and you know, like we do fight all- or not all the time but, [Umu laughs] when she when two similar people get in the same room (Umu: Yeah) like there's bound to be arguments that happen but in in that we- my mom- always come back to each other and our relationship is always been very good. And like I really do love my mom. Thanks mom. I: What am I thankful for? A lot of things actually. I think it's just the general support for going into music. I think she always... looked for the best opportunities for me. So I always thank her for that. 
K: Hmm. C: Um, I just want to say mom, I hope you're feeling better by now. And I know it's always like a struggle like every- every year it's always really a a big reminder of like, you know, like what what we could have lost. I always be grateful to both you and dad for how you raised us um, you know, we- we always had hard like little [gestures] confrontations, but you guys were always willing to change for us as the years went by and I think we... like we are the people today because of that and just the way that you accepted all of us, even if you maybe couldn't at first. And then like just watching you guys grow with us, and having you in our lives was very very special. E: I'm incredibly lucky to have a mom who was as supportive of me whenever I've come to her with things, It's always been, I will always love you. It doesn't matter to me or your dad, you know, no matter what it was, my mom has just been on my side the whole time. Um, and she is always ready to drop everything and just be here for me and that's pretty awesome. H: Mama, [Talks in Chinese] N: Hi mom. Thank you so much for all of your support for all of my life I really value having you and your- our conversations every time I come home I'm like, this is what I've- this is what I've missed and I'm so glad that I have you in my life. I love you a lot. Thank you for watching these. [Umu laughs] K: yeah, I want to thank my mom for, sort of bearing with me throughout the years. I know I don't call as much as I should but yet you're- you've been... increasingly patient actually and yeah sometimes I'm- I'm honestly a little, yeah I wish I could bring myself to talk to you more, but hopefully by the time this video comes out we'll be in- in closer contact. Yeah, and I do mean that so yay. Happy Mother's Day F: Ooh I wanna do one to my mom.
D: Okay. F: Hello mama, you're the best. Thanks for teaching me how to bake pie and love the outdoors [F nods then laughs]
D: Oh I love that! D: Okay, well.  Hi mom. [Umu and Fiona laugh] D: If you're watching this, um, I'm like very grateful for your deep understanding and empathy, that you've really instilled into the perspective that I hope to bring into my life. Yeah, and I'm really grateful for your hard work and raising me, you know nobody's perfect. And- but you taught me that there's such beauty in that. Thank you. [Umu and Fiona laugh again] Umu: Hey mama, happy Mother's Day. Wahhh! I don't think I've ever fully expressed how much I love you, how thankful I am, and how much I feel like I owe you for everything that you sacrifice for me daily. There's still so much that I need to learn from you. I'm so thankful for all your advice you have given me, and that I've been able to spread to all my friends when they have the same problems as me. To all the mothers and mother figures out there. Happy Mother's Day. K: Oh no, we're ending on- Both: AAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH 