- I'll be the first to admit that this is not the kind of product that I would typically be interested in. But my first experience with the Razer Kishi, adorable
name, by the way, was when I was doing a sponsored video
for a company called Rainway. And Rainway makes a software that's kind of like a consolidation of all
the different game launchers on your computer, so
you just have one place to kinda click on the game and play it. So this is a controller that is supposed to be a universally compatible
USB-C controller doodad for your Android phone. So this only handles charging. There's a Type-C port on the
bottom that is charging only. Get that sticker off of it. Let's talk buttons first, (controller clacks) they're fine. (laughs) The D-pad is nothing special. The analog sticks feel really good, and the A, B, X, Y, I would give like a B. They don't really have
any tactile feedback, they're kind of mushy,
but they're consistent, and there's nothing that jumps out to me as like an obvious quality issue. As for the triggers? I mean, I think you can hear everything that I would have to say about those. (triggers clacking) Not amazing, no click in the shoulder, and not the best trigger I've ever felt. But compared to any
other one of these things that I've tried before
it feels really good. So I guess it's not about
how good the product is, it's about how good the competitors are. Let's go ahead and grab the
phone that I daily drive, it's my Note 9. I'm back on it again. I just can't get away from
this phone, I love it. So you've got these kind of clips in here. You've got kinda like a
pad material, right here. A Type-C connector on the inside here. And then on the other side,
you've got kind of this, it's neat, it's kinda like
a ribbed rubber, right here, that's intended to hold the phone in place and then, presumably,
not scratch the glass, although we'll find that out soon enough. So I didn't follow the instructions, or I didn't read them rather, so I'm just gonna guess
that you kind of plunk it onto the USB Type-C like that. And then, see, there's kind of like some stretchability to it, and then you kinda plunk it on like that. Now, of course, this is a
phone sample size of one, this is the Note 9, and I don't think that Razer designed this
thing for me specifically, or for this phone specifically, but, dang, does it ever
go with it perfectly. Look how little wobble there is in that. Like, that fits. There's a little bit more this way, but that's not how I would
naturally put pressure on the device when I'm using it. I would typically hold it kinda like that, like kinda from the bottom, and I found that it fit extremely well. Android has native support
for controllers like this, so you can see I'm immediately
controlling my home screen at a 90-degree angle, 'cause
that's brilliant obviously. One thing that's kind of a drag is that if you have a rear-mounted touch sensor, obviously you can't use it
with this thing in the way and same goes for your rear camera. I mean, I guess most of
the time when you're gaming you don't really need your rear camera and your phone would be unlocked, but it's just something that I found kind of obnoxious just 'cause it's so hard to get at. Actually, wait, I'm gonna
navigate over to Utilities, here, and tell you about our sponsor, Displate. Displate makes metal prints. They've got over 800,000 unique designs that you can put on your walls, and their magnetic mounting
system decreases the risk of damaging your walls. We've even got some of our own
designs on the platform now, and you can use code CIRCUIT to save 15% at the link in the video description. All right, let's go back to Rainway. Let's... You know what, "Overcooked 2." "Overcooked" is a good test
game for me just because it's one of the few controller games that I've actually invested enough time in to be any good at. Okay, this is a small screen
for this game. (chuckles) I cannot find the fire extinguisher. Ah, hello? Hello, where's the fire extinguisher? Wait, there is no fire extinguisher. This is before they introduced the fire
extinguisher mechanic. Ah, shoot. Last time, okay. I swear to you, I'm actually
decent at this game, I just can't see anything. Where did this cucumber go? Oh, I threw it by accident. 'Kay, just don't include
any of this, Editor. Okay, how'd I do? Hey, I got a star. (claps) Whoo! You know what? No, it's there, "Tomb Raider." "Tomb Raider", it's a classic. There's tombs, they're raided, 'kay? They've got redundancy. - They've got--
- Oh, God. - (chuckles) Yes! Got him! I kinda wish my workstation
was a little bit more performancy right about now. Man, Wi-Fi is so not good
enough still. (humming) "Spike trap, press A to jump." Ah! Oh, wow, that's really gruesome, hey? Wow, all right, enough of that. So far nothing about
actually playing games on this thing has changed
what I had to say about it. For one of these things, it's solid. Feels well built. Quality of the controller is really good. It's still a controller
strapped to a phone, but it's not the kind of thing that I could see myself typically using. Okay, in fairness though,
a number of years back, I did play the entire first installment in the "Tomb Raider" reboot
series on my NVIDIA SHIELD which fundamentally was not
that different from this. To be clear, I'm talking about the SHIELD
Portable, the game console one, not the tablet. What's that racing series
that everyone plays on mobile? - "Asphalt."
(triggers clacking) - I get it, I get it. You make your epic,
snazzy thing or whatever. What, no, I don't want a tutorial. I know how to play video games. "Quit race." How about that? What do you think of that? "Congratulations! "You received these cards." "Well done, Driver." You didn't... Skip! It's not even that much time,
that was less than a minute, but it felt like 10 because
it's so unnecessary. Holy crap, is this the same... (cameraman laughing) Whatever, I don't even care,
I'm not even gonna do it. But that's fine. The Kishi, pretty cool device. You can check it out at the
link in the video description. Just, oh man, so angry. Thanks for watching, subscribe. 