American Civil War—bad. Captain America: Civil War—good. War star-ting—bad. Star Wars—good. War of the Worlds—bad. World War—go… wait, no. No War—good, for most. One of the few downsides for a lack of war
is that there’s not much for generals and the like to do so they need activities to
fill their time. One such activity is planning for war. After all, the US for example, has only been
at war for 224 years of its 243 year existence—a measly 92%. That’s a lot of downtime. During the 20’s, there wasn’t much war
stuff going on—only this small four decade-long war in central America where the US was fighting
to be sure the bananas kept flowing—and so in order to prepare for a possible Great
War part deux the US started making plans for what their strategy would be for hypothetical
wars with possible contenders like Japan, China, Mexico, and the UK. Now, despite their very public break-up in
the late 1700’s, relations between the US and UK mostly improved up until World War
One when relations improved greatly after the US did Europe a solid by rocking up in
the forth quarter and helping finish the job. Nonetheless, Britain was still a big scary
empire—by some measures still the most powerful nation in the world—so the US still prepared
a plan in the 30’s for war with the red coats. It was called War Plan Red and the idea was
as follows. Of course, after the US quite boisterously
declared itself as not part of the UK in the 1700s, one of the not-quite-united States
of America, that is, Canada, remained part of the British empire. By the 1900s, Canada was independent but still
very much integrated in the commonwealth and it had some fancy features like a 5,500 mile,
9,000 kilometer border with the home team in this hypothetical UK-US war. It was therefore believed that the UK would
use Canada as a jumping-off point for an invasion of the mainland US so the idea was for the
US military to yankee doodle doo its way up into Canada before the British could arrive. There were five main areas that the US would
invade—Halifax and St. John, Montreal and Quebec city, the Great Lakes area, Winnipeg,
and Vancouver. Step one was to launch an offensive towards
Halifax by land and sea. Halifax was a crucial port for British-Canadian
trade and therefore occupying it would greatly slow down the movement of British forces into
Canada. From there, a land assault from New York and
Vermont would be launched to occupy Montreal and Quebec City. These act as major ports on the St Lawrence
River and controlling the St Lawrence would essentially split Canada in two preventing
goods from the agricultural areas in the Maritimes from getting to the rest. The US would also seek to control the Great
Lakes area around Toronto both because this area was and is one of Canada’s major population
and industrial centers and because it’s dangerously close to the American midwest
which, at the time, was a crucial industrial area of the US. They didn’t want the British to be able
to set up bases here. Winnipeg was next on US’ wish list largely
because it acted as the center of Canada’s trans-continental railroad so controlling
Winnipeg would mean controlling and cutting off rail transportation. Lastly, Vancouver, while lower importance,
was included in invasion plans to prevent Britain using it as a back-up port by going
through the Panama Canal and in order to disrupt Canada’s pacific trade. It was believed that if the US controlled
these five areas, they would effectively control Canada and this would be a significant enough
blow that the UK would seek a peace deal—no conflict outside the western hemisphere was
planned. Interestingly, this plan included a short
little casual little line mentioning that the US had no intention of returning the captured
territory. Canada would become part of the US. Who knows, maybe they have oil or something
well that sure would be convenient, hahahahaha-please-give-us-oil. That being their worst nightmare, Canada developed
their own war plan against the United States. They recognized that their own military alone
did not have a great chance at defending their territory against the US long-term. The general idea was therefore to distract
US forces by, as soon as credible intelligence about an impending US invasion was received,
launching a surprise invasion on Seattle, Spokane, Portland, Fargo, Great Falls, Minneapolis,
Albany, and Maine. Eventually, as American forces arrived to
defend these cities the Canadians would retreat destroying infrastructure like bridges, roads,
and railroads on their way back to slow an American invasion. Hopefully, according to the Canadian plan,
by this time British troops would have arrived from the UK. Now, while they were far from the most credible
threat to the US, some people really believed in the 30s that war with the British empire
could happen. Today, any sort of conflict between the US
and UK or Canada—two of the most culturally and economically linked countries to the US—seems
ridiculous although, War Plan Red, the US’ plan, was only declassified in 1974. The US won’t acknowledge whether or not
there’s a modern day equivalent. As far as we know, the American military could
be prepping for war with the UK right now. 