“Suddenly a dark cloud
settled over first period. I got a C in debate?" Clueless protagonist Cher Horowitz
is a master of making an argument. For Cher, the art of debate
is the family business. “Daddy's a litigator. Those are the scariest kinds of lawyers.” Her focus at school, “Like right now for example,
the Haitains need to come to America but some people are all,
what about the strain on our resources?” Her way of expressing love, “Cher please don’t start
with the juice again.” “Daddy, you need your vitamin C.” And her means of feeling in control
of her life, “Some teachers were trying
to lowball me, Daddy.” If we look closer,
we can learn a few things from this teen about how to make our case
so people will listen. “In conclusion, may I please remind you
that it does not say RSVP on the statue of liberty!” Here’s our take on how to harness
our powers of persuasion like Cher. Before we go on,
we want to talk about this video’s sponsor. Skillshare is an online
learning community where you can learn anything from video editing
to business strategy, coding or lucid dreaming. They offer 25,000 online classes
from famous teachers at the top of their field. And right now Skillshare is offering
our viewers two months access to all their classes for free. So click the link
in the description below to sign up now. Cher’s instinct is always to quibble, “I object! Do you recall the dates
of these alleged tardies?” When most of us would let things slide,
or hold our tongue. “You don’t understand. This is an Alaia.” “An a-what-a?” “It's, like,
a totally important designer.” “And I will totally shoot you
in the head.” As the daughter of a lawyer,
Cher enjoys free lessons in fighting from a top-tier professional. “But he fights with me for free
because I’m his daughter.” Her father has imparted to her
a value system that prizes skills of persuasion above everything else. “Do you mean to tell me
you argued your way from a C plus to an A-?” “Totally based on my powers
of persuasion. You proud?” “Honey, I couldn’t be happier than
if they were based on real grades.” He teaches her that everything
can be argued. “Daddy, did you ever have a problem
you couldn’t argue your way out of?” “Tell me the problem
and we’ll figure out how to argue it.” When characters study subjects
in school, the choice of subject is usually a reflection of the story
we’re watching. "Brutus is just as cute as Caesar. OK, Brutus is just as smart as Caesar. People totally like Brutus
just as much as they like Caesar.” It’s there to reinforce
or illuminate a deeper theme. “In faith, I do not love thee
with mine eyes. For they and thee
a thousand errors note. But 'tis my heart loves
what they despise.” In Clueless, the main class
we focus on is debate. “Amber will take the con position. Cher will be pro.” Cher’s speeches rouse her classmates
to enthusiastic applause. “Two very enthusiastic thumbs up. Fine holiday fun.” We can see why her arguments
appeal to her peers. So until mankind is peaceful enough
not to have violence on the news, there's no point in taking it out
of shows that need it for entertainment value.” They’re succinct, take a clear stance,
and grab the imagination with accessible analogies. “And so if the government could just
get to the kitchen, rearrange some things,
we could certainly party with the Haiti-ans.” At its core,
this whole movie is an argument presented by Cher. “I had to give myself snaps
for all the good deeds I was doing.” She makes her case about who she is
and the great wisdom she has to impart about life. “Searching for a boy in high school
is as useless as searching for meaning in a Pauly Shore movie.” When she pontificates on the failings
of high-school boys to the sounds of David Bowie,
it's like she's prefiguring the modern video essay craze. “It looks like they just fell out of bed
and put on some baggy pants and take their greasy hair... Ugh! And cover it up with a backwards cap, and, like, we're expected to swoon?” So a big part of what makes her
effectively persuasive is a mastery of voice,
she has an impressive facility with language. “I've tried everything to convince him
of my scholastic aptitude, but I was brutally rebuffed.” And understands the importance
of originality and inventiveness In her thought and speech. “She's a full on Monet.” “What's a Monet?” “It's like the paintings, see? From far away, it's O.K. But up close, it's a big old mess.” Whether or not her observations
have much basis in reality, there’s something deeply enjoyable
about the way in which she makes them. “Do you prefer fashion victim
or ensembally challenged?” According to Aristotle’s Rhetoric,
there are three modes of persuasion, and we can see Cher demonstrate
how to use all three in Clueless. The first, Ethos,
is when the speaker appeals to her own personal character. It’s important that the rhetorician
comes across as credible. “She’s my friend because we both know
what it’s like to have people be jealous of us.” For example,
if you know you’re listening to the foremost professor on a subject, “I just want everyone here to know,
that I am the preeminent Proust scholar in the United States.” You’ll probably listen
to what they have to say, more than you would the ramblings
of any random Joe on the same topic. "My birthday's in April,
and as someone older, can I please give you some advice?” Aristotle said that the speaker’s
“character may almost be called the most effective means of persuasion
he possesses.” “The fact that you hang with Dee and I,
well, that speaks very highly of you.” And this mode, ethos,
is what Cher uses to open the movie. She anticipates the assumptions
the audience might draw about her, “So okay you’re probably going
is this like a Noxema commercial or what?” and she rushes to fend them off
by establishing her credibility. “But seriously,
I actually have a way normal life for a teenage girl.” Aristotle’s second mode of persuasion
is pathos, which is “putting the audience into
a certain frame of mind.” Aristotle writes, “persuasion may come through
the hearers, when the speech stirs their emotions.” So often, the most important part
of successful persuasion is knowing the listener
and crafting the argument to make them feel something. Cher gives us a masterclass in “pathos”
when she convinces her teachers to give her better grades. She gets them on her side
by invoking a common enemy. “I told my PE teacher an evil male
had broken my heart.” Or expressing interest in their passions. “Then I promised Miss Geist I'd start
a letter-writing campaign to my congressman about violations
of the Clean Air Act.” And when she encounters an audience
who’s unreceptive to all arguments she goes further and makes him over
into a happier person who can be swayed. “He's a miserable little man
who wants to make everyone else miserable too.” “Dee, that's it! We've got to figure out
a way to make Mr. Hall sublimely happy.” Aristotle’s third mode of persuasion is
Logos, the proof, which consists of the logic and evidence that back up
the speaker’s argument. Cher understands the importance
of referring to concrete examples or comparisons to prove her point. And she’s very good at dressing up
uncompelling data, to make it sound better than it is. “Excuse me, but I have donated
many expensive Italian outfits to Lucy. As soon as I get my license,
I fully intend to brake for animals, and I have contributed many hours
to helping two lonely teachers find romance.” But here, for example,
the evidence she’s presented is a little thin. Logos is the mode where Cher
is the weakest. "Do you have any idea
what you're talking about?" "No. Why, do I sound like I do?" Aristotle defines “rhetoric”
as essentially being able to find the “available means of persuasion”
in any case. The subject, or the content,
doesn’t matter. It’s the ability to see
what could be persuasive in anything. “Mr. Hall, I was surfing
the crimson wave. I had to haul ass to the ladies.” But while this might be the key
to being a perfect rhetorician, in Cher’s life, this lack of regard
for the content of what she’s arguing for is holding her back. “I got it! Elton! “He just broke up with Folette!” “Who's Elton?” “Oh my god, he's way popular,
like the social director of the Crew.” Early in the movie
Cher gets some negative feedback about her debate performance. “He said my debates were unresearched
unstructured and unconvincing, as if!” So let’s break down Mr. Hall’s
three criticisms. “Unresearched” Okay, maybe Cher could read
a few more books to flesh out her policy suggestions. But the deeper meaning of this
is that Cher hasn't done much research of her world. As the title of the movie underlines,
this is the story of Cher realizing how much she doesn’t know. “It all boiled down to one
inevitable conclusion. I was just totally clueless.” She’s still a kid,
with limited experience of culture. “You like Billie Holiday?” “I love him.” “Right.” The larger world, “Lucy's from El Salvador.” “What does that matter?” “You get upset if someone
thinks you live below Sunset.” And relationships, “Cher, you're a virgin?” “You see how picky I am about my shoes. They only go on my feet.” When you look past
her entertaining delivery, the substance of plenty of the advice
she offers us is laughably simplistic. “And sometimes you have to show
a little skin. This reminds guys of being naked, and then they think of sex.” Her style-over-substance problem
is encapsulated in her approach to driving. Instead of focusing on learning
to drive well, she makes excuses for her mistakes, “Boy, that came out of nowhere.” “Hello that was a stop sign.” “I totally paused.” “Hey, James Bond, in America
we drive on the right side of the road.” “I am. You try driving in platforms.” On the day of her test,
she’s focused on what clothes to wear “But today's the driving test. It's my most capable-looking outfit.” And this is a perfect symbol
of her fixation on how she’s presenting herself,
instead of whether she knows her stuff. After she totally botches the test,
true to form, she tries to talk herself out of failing. “You saw how that biker came out
of nowhere, right? Oh! I swear I'll concentrate! I drive really good, usually.” But Cher learns sometimes
there's just no substitute for actually doing the work. “I failed something I couldn't
talk my way out of?” This event is followed
by Cher’s second, even bigger wake up call. “You’re a virgin who can’t drive.” The revelation that all
of her wise “teachings” and makeover efforts, have made sweet Tai into an unfeeling,
cruel, shallow person. “What did I do? I've created some sort of a monster.” She’s forced to reevaluate
all of the substance she’s been so authoritatively passing
down to her friends and to us. ”Everything I think
and everything I do is wrong.” Thus to make her arguments
better “researched,” Cher needs to learn the power
of being receptive to the world and people around her. “Then I realized all my friends
were really good in different ways. Like Christian,
he always wants things to be beautiful and interesting.” And she listens when the universe
presents her with a community that’s actually in need
of meaningful help she can provide. “Miss Geist?” “Cher?” “I want to help.” “That would be wonderful.” Mr. Hall’s second critique is that
Cher’s arguments are “Unstructured,” and this is true of her life, too. “I'd like to see you
have a little bit of direction.” “I have direction.” “Yeah. Towards the mall.” Cher’s characterization plays on
the 80s and 90s stereotype of the “Valley Girl.” “Who’s watching the galleria?” Even though she’s from Beverly Hills
and rarely goes to the Valley, “Wow A party!” “It's in the Valley. The cops usually break them up in less than an hour,
and it takes that long to get there.” This character exemplified
the Valley girl’s distinctive speech. “But people came that like,
did not RSVP, so I was, like, totally buggin’.” Her materialism and love of shopping, “Dude what’s wrong? Are you suffering
from buyer's remorse or something?” “God, no, Nothing like that.” And the way that she might come across
as airheaded. “What did you do in school today?” “Well I broke in my purple clogs.” But Cher’s argument for herself
is a rebuttal of the assumption that teen girls aren’t worthy
of respect. “I'll get killed 'cause she's a moron.” “She's not a moron.” It’s quickly apparent that this
young woman is incredibly smart. "I think I remember Hamlet accurately." "Well, I remember Mel Gibson accurately,
and he didn't say that. That Polonius guy did." As well as creative,
and well-intentioned. Her problem, though, what does fit of the
Valley girl critique, is that she’s superficial. This very bright person
who wants to make a positive impact has no outlet for her potential. “We should do something good
for mankind or the planet for a couple of hours.” So by presenting this critique
of the Valley Girl type in Cher, director Amy Heckerling was subtly
getting at how, while 90’s culture expressed contempt
for young women who spoke like Cher, "You think that's all I do? I'm just a ditz with a credit card?" In fact it was their culture
that was failing these young women by not providing them
with appropriate positive influences. Girls like Cher were shaped
by consumerist culture and beauty magazines. “And you lose weight by cutting it small.” “Whenever a boy comes, you should always
have something baking.” And left hungry for something
more productive to channel their talents into. "Regina's spine healed,
and her physical therapist taught her to channel all her rage into sports." The movie implies several times
that Cher’s reliance on argument is really a seeking of control. “Cher's main thrill in life
is a makeover, ok. It gives her a sense of control
in a world filled with chaos.” “I felt impotent and out of control,
which I really hate.” She goes on to reveal
that she uses retail therapy to manage her stress. “I needed to find sanctuary in a place
where I could gather my thoughts and regain my strength.” And this is actually kind of
a sad commentary, “Ooh, I wonder if they have that
in my size.” That Cher doesn’t have a more satisfying
means of taking charge when she feels down. “You’ve never had a mother
so you’re acting out on that poor girl like she was your barbie doll.” Josh implies the reason
Cher needs to act like a know-it-all is because she’s disempowered
by not having a guiding female presence in her life. “I don't remember her,
but I like to pretend she still watches over me. Hey ma, 98 in geometry. Pretty groovy huh?” So there’s a suggestion that Cher
is hooked on positive feedback because, deep down,
she feels really lost in her life. “That you found someone even more
clueless than you are to worship you.” Finally, Mr. Hall calls Cher’s debates
“Unconvincing.” In fact, the great pleasure
of watching Clueless comes from the comic mismatch between what we see,
and Cher’s questionable interpretation of events. “Do you see how he's falling in love
with me? I mean, look how he ignores every other girl.” Cher is out of touch with reality
because she’s working very hard to defend a certain self-image. She’s filtering her experiences through too many layers of agenda
and imagination, and she develops a more mature view of the world
when she’s finally more willing to look openly at the chaos of reality. "You look confused.” “Well, uh, I thought they declared peace
in the Middle East." For Cher and her family,
fighting is love. “Daddy no!, Daddy no!” “Come on, Cher.” “You know you can’t have that,
don’t be silly.” Look at her relationship
with the person she comes to realize she’s in love with, Josh. “Shouldn't you go to school
on the East Coast? I hear girls at NYU
aren't at all particular.” “You’re funny.” These two express how much they care
through fighting. “Hey granola breath
you have something on your chin.” “If I ever saw you do anything
that wasn’t 90% selfish I’d die of shock.” Cher and her dad show their love
by bickering over each trying to do good for the other. “Don't try sneaking out of the office. Dr. Lovett's giving you a flu shot.” “Oh Josh is coming for dinner.” “Why?” The most long-lasting couple
in Cher’s friendship group, Dionne and Murray,
are constantly arguing, too. “That's it. You wanna play games? I’m calling your mother.” “Hold up! No, no, no! Wait! Don't call my mom!” And by the end,
it’s clear they have a deep bond underneath their displays of drama. “Or Dionne and Murray,
when they think no one is watching, are so considerate of each other.” When Cher meets the guy
who seems perfect, Christian, his nice, flattering pleasantness
is the behavior of someone who doesn’t love her. “Hey handsome!” “Stunning!” Putting it all out there,
honestly expressing what you think and feel, and hashing it all out
are key signs of love. “Murray, I have asked you repeatedly
not to call me woman.” “Excuse me, Miss Dionne.” “Thank you. “Okay but street slang
is an increasingly valid form of expression. Most feminine pronouns
do have mocking but not necessarily misogynistic undertone.” On first viewing many viewers
might find it slightly weird that Josh is Cher’s step-brother. “How much fun would it be
to have a brother type tagging along?” “Josh you are not my brother.” The relation comes from
the source material, as Jane Austen’s heroine Emma
falls for Mr. Knightley, her lifetime friend who’s also
her sister’s brother-in-law. But what Clueless brings out
in this sibling-like relationship is how bickering and teasing
are true signs of affection. “I want to do something good
for humanity.” “How about sterilization?”] After Cher first realizes her feelings,
she’s paralyzed because she can’t put on the fake shows that she normally uses
as part of courting. “I mean, ordinarily,
I'd strut around him in my cutest little outfits and send myself flowers
and candy, but I couldn't do that stuff with Josh.” Her relationship with Josh is too honest
for that kind of superficial, artificial manipulation. So this gets at how fighting
is a natural outcome of authentic behavior. “How many hours a day
do you spend grooming yourself?” “Some people aren't lucky enough
to be as naturally adorable as you are.” “Stop it. You're making me blush.” Almost all teen movies
focus on popularity and the cruelty of adolescents,
but while that’s a part of Clueless, “Whatever!” What’s great about Cher
is that she deeply desires to be a good person. “I don't think they need your skis.” “Daddy, some people lost
all their belongings. Don't you think that includes
athletic equipment?” It’s hard to think of
that many examples of characters like her, who earnestly try to improve
their world, especially as teens. “I feel like my after-school commitments
are just not good enough." "How can you say that? Who takes care of everyone in this household? Who makes sure
that Daddy eats right? To tell you the truth
I have not seen such good-doing since your mother." If you look closer,
Cher’s do-gooder instinct is tied to her drive to argue. She doesn’t just accept
the way things are, she’s always pushing for better. “I would just like to say
that physical education in this school is a disgrace.” In the last scene,
Cher tells Josh he can count on her to catch the wedding bouquet. “It’s in the bag.” And of course, she emerges victorious. Why does Cher know
that she’s going to win this exercise? Because she has the drive
to keep fighting for what she wants, long after everyone else has given up. Cher’s argumentative stance teaches us
we should never just be content with the status quo. “What are the chances of you shutting up
until you get your way.” “Slim to none.” Because we can always negotiate
for better. “I know how you say never accept
a first offer. So I figure these grades
are a jumping-off point to start negotiations.” This could lead to
the kind of irritating, entitled personality
that’s always asking for the manager. “Isn't there somebody else
I can talk to? You can't be the absolute and final word
on driver’s licenses.” But, when channeled
in the right direction, it yields a person who’s always seeing
opportunities for progress all around her. “Don't you wanna use your popularity
for a good cause?” “No.” Once she finds her mission
that’s worth fighting for, “I need more boxes. They're all filled up.” “Already? Great.” “I divided them into entrees
and appetizers.” “Oh. O.K.” Cher the persuader is unstoppable. “It's like that book I read
in ninth grade that said, Tis a far, far better thing
doing stuff for other people." 