One Day in January
(G)I-DLE Came Here to Shoot Concert Posters (In the order of age)
Today's First Turn, Miyeon I took the picture as the first runner. We are at the studio of the photographer
who has taken our pictures since we debuted. Whenever I come here,
I feel renewed. Q. How do you feel about the concert?
I thought it was far from us yet. So, when I heard we would do it,
I was so surprised. Now, we're taking the posters
and I think, 'It's really coming soon.' Thinking of it, my heart is pounding. Art Cho is Introducing
Today's Shooting Concept It's like 'We founded our own land', huh? So, the first costume is RED
to give a strong impression. Everybody has her own details. I'm wearing the shoes
with saturated reds~ Our staff members have taken
good care of our costumes. So, I think you can look forward
to the posters. Go for it~ Guys, I got my hair dyed today~ Minnie with the Pink Point Dyeing I wanted to get my hair dyed
with pink color and I did it. >> Not hairpieces but the actual dye? Yes, I got it dyed! The first costume point
is red color and flowers. To my eyes! (Whispering)
My costume is most beautiful. (Yontahehe) Oh, hold on! I have one more point.
The earrings. I mustn't break them. Not to get them hurt, I should be careful.
(Earrings Made of Transparent Glass Beads) Tinkling~ Can you hear it? Tinkling~ I should be careful. *Cautious of Shocking Visual*
Shall We Go to Shoot the Poster Now? I'm wearing some pearls here today. The hair is done with soap. [Today's Soojin Infobot]
1. Soojin's wavy hair is done by soap. 2. The pearls, Soojin's point, are glued
with the liquid for the double eyelid. Your earrings are very showy today! Yes, this purple thing... Fingerring~ It's not my fault... (Scared)
This one is fragile... 'Dropping Again' I'm in trouble now. ~ Soojin's Fixing Time... ~ Trying to Close the Comment... Today's conster(?) Soojin's Malfunction of Korean I'm here to shoot concert posters. Mental Breakdown Anyway... Yeah... I'll do my best! Way to go! Sister! Going to the Stylist to Tell the Truth It... It's okay. 'Found the Camera' She said it was okay, guys~ We Won't Miss This Kind of Scene...
I-TALK Cam Never Leaves (Ashamed)
Go away! It's a secret. Today's concept is my idea. Beijing Puppy, Queen of Bluff Again Today I love this concept. But, I hope the members
do their best a bit more. (Engrossed)
I watched the first part... (Yuqi is in the second party)
>> No, you didn't. (Prickled) (Refer to the legendary songwriter episode)
Yuqi is good at producing acting, right? Yes! Since I'm the TOP songwriter... Then, can you improvise a song here? In the Process of Output Yeh Shuhua ya imma!
It's your honor, imma! Indeed... A Genius Songwriter... Soyeon Finished the First Individual Shoot Now, I'm going to eat a meal. Guys~ Don't skip meals, okay? Soyeon's Lunch Today!
Pork Cutlet & Sweet and Sour Chicken Today is such a day, you know? The day I want to eat pork cutlet~ [Soyeon's Pork Cutlet Mukbang Vlog] I'll eat it up! Biting~ It's from a lunch store
but they make all kinds of food, right? Yum   Yum How come they cook so well? But, you know it, huh? There is a minimum order amount. To match the amount,
I tend to order a lot. When I order tteokbokki,
I eat it for a day. I heat it up and eat again the next day. And I can make fried rice using tteokbokki
2 days later. Soyeon... Help Yourself...
Indeed... A Learned Person For the Next Shooting,
Soyeoon Recharged Herself with Food! During the Break Time,
Puppy Sisters Are Back for Self-Cam <<Shuhua
Minnie, are you okay? No, I'm forced to do it. Yes, you're okay. Without asking me,
Miyeon suddenly turned it on. Is it working? Today's I-TALK Infobot
Minnie Turned on Self-Cam I've never tried my rap even in a singing room. Yawning~ Staring Hey! Minnie is Caught While Plugging in Earphones Angry     /     Whining I'll film myself alone. (Complaining) Hi, my beloved NEVERLAND? I'm Miyeon of (G)I-DLE! Guys, play with me~ (Very Childish) << Minnie
NEVERLAND doesn't want to play with you. You wanna participate in it, huh?
Minnie Keeps Speaking to Miyeon Really? Trying to act cute so much! Oh, really? Okay, thank you~
Showing What Cuteness Is... And the Group Shooting Begins! Guys~ This is~ It's Soojin! Why is it so small? But, it's in the center... Of my heart. Soosoo is at the Center of Shushu's Heart It's a rose. I'm a rose
because 'Mi' in my name means a rose. (Changing her words)
No rose here! So Childish The First Shooting is Done Like That! 2nd Shooting
The Banners with Their Names Are Ready! Miyeon Begins the First Turn Again Do you think the picture came out well? Well... Yes. I've never worn this kind of costume before. This kind of tie, either. Since I feel renewed,
I like both styles. But, I like this costume better. I told you Miyeon would pose like this. That's none of your business.
I just want to pose it~ Naturally, the Pose
Has Become Miyeon's Signature(?) <<Minnie
Wow, my name is on it?! Isn't it Disney? It can be 'Minnie_Mouse'~ Minnie Loves the Prop (Imposingly)
Did you see it? My idea was good, huh? I asked them to put our names one by one. Yuqi is in the Producer Mode All Day Long Don't I look like a boss
or a boss' daughter? A boss' daughter. My father says I should be confident. You look very confident now. Didn't you see that? Full of Bluff I'm not interested in this life anymore(?) Because nobody has more swag than me. Song Swag is Full of Self-love All the Time Ha... It's hard! PD Song Turns into Photographer Song Now! A cute concept, huh? Now?! Is that so? You look so cute now, right? Really? Loving Yuqi
Love Makes a Good Picture Let me pose coolly. Like this. Cool~ One, two, three~ One, two, three~ Photographer Song Doesn't Like the Filter Click~ Passing~ Changing again? I'm looking for a fine picture
while changing it. Soyeon's Exclusive Photographer
Never Takes Pictures Carelessly (Satisfied)
Thank you~ Photographer Yuqi, thank you~ Do you feel real about the concert now? Nope?! Preparing for the concert is... (Whining)
What should I do~ During the process of preparing for it,
I'll feel real about doing the concert. That's what I wanted to say! Youngest Shuhua Finished the Individual Cut! Shuhua, the hairband looks so good on you! I love it very much, too. Shushu Matches the Styling Perfectly The Youngest One Looks Very Glamourous Do I look pretty? (Of course...)
Do I look pretty? (Covering) (Bashful) I'm shy about revealing my body part. Shy About Everything at the Age of 21... Just Before the Final Group Cut,
Shuhua's Time with I-TALK Cam (Peekaboo) (Sentimental) (Peeking) What is she doing here? Everybody~ Welcome to I-LAND, Shuhua Land (Pretty)   (Sexy) They Finished the Filming
Prettily and Pleasantly Again Today Bye~ Well Done Today~ Thank you! I love you, NEVERLAND~ Bye~ Don't! No, I won't accept it! You already have my love. 