When you turn a car’s steering wheel, the
car follows a path along the same curve regardless whether you go forwards or backwards. So it seems like it should be just as easy
to steer going backwards as going forwards. But clearly, it's not. Suprisingly, the difficulty of driving backwards
has almost nothing to do with the direction you’re facing and everything to do with
the fact that you steer using the front wheels. When driving forwards, a car goes in the direction
the front wheels are pointed. And when driving backwards, the car goes where
the back wheels are pointed. Simple! But the difference is that going forwards,
the direction of travel is determined by the same wheels you steer with, so you just point
them where you want to go, and that’s where you go, the back wheels follow automatically. In physics, we call this a “stable” system,
like dangling a pencil from your fingers – move your hand around and the pencil follows, no
thought required. However, when driving backwards, the direction
of travel is determined by the back wheels but you steer with the front wheels. So rather than just pointing the front wheels
where you want to go, you have to point them in the direction that will get the BACK wheels
to point in the direction you want to go – it’s an additional level of separation before the
car does what you want. And in fact, if you don’t make any corrections,
then over time the back wheels point farther and farther away from the direction you want
to go: instead of following the front wheels, they want to run away! This is an unstable system, like trying to
balance a pencil on your fingertip. It’s incredibly finicky and requires a ton
of coordinated hand-eye feedback to maintain. That’s why you constantly have to readjust
your steering when driving backwards – mathematically, your car is like an upside-down pencil! Of course, there are some successful rear-steering
wheeled vehicles – forklifts, for example, drive only slowly and choose rear-steering
for greater control of their forks. But let’s go in the other direction and
add a TRAILER to your car – steering backwards has gained ANOTHER level of difficulty: you
use your front wheels to get the back wheels to point in the direction needed to get the
TRAILER to point in the direction you want to go. Not complicated enough? It becomes worse the more trailers you add
– each one adds another level of separation between the direction of your steering and
the actual direction of travel. Which is why it’s nearly impossible to push
on one end of a chain or a rope and have the other end go where you want it to, and why
you will never, ever balance a flexible rope or chain upright on your finger. Makes backwards driving seem downright easy! 