Ethan:Hila, is there anything better than lesbians? *Ethan claps* Eithan:YESSS Ethan:Ahhh Ethan:Anything? Hila:The question seems incomplete. Hila:What do you con-conclude? Hila:What what else?..Ehhh.... Ethan:Anything, anything, just a couple of lesbians. *Fwoop* Ethan:OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO Ethan:I make that joke, my friends...Because we are watching today a video called "Lesbians... ...Try kissing men for the first time." Man:Do you want to make out ? Woman:I mean, Do I have a choice? Woman:GGHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH *Silence* Woman:G H H H H Ethan:Hila, You like you don't want to know how many straight women I've turned lesbian. I'm the lesbian maker. Hila:They just look at you. Woman:G H H H Ethan:D-Dude..Do...You don't even know how many women I've turned lesbian,just walking past me on the street. Ethan:And furthermore this video has 22 million views! Ethan:But why?...Why does this video have 22 million views?...And it's also the most popular video on "The Human Experiment." Ethan:The HUMAN Ethan:Experiment. Yes, we all love to experiment on humans Ethan:Don't we? Alright Hila, now don't get any ideas here with these suave ass guys and their bomb-ass kissing Ethan:Okay?
 Hila:Al...right.
Ethan:Now we're married.YOU said vows to ME! 
Hila:I'll do my best, but...
Ethan:Alright...Been hustling... Ethan:You've been hustling dick! *Hila laughs* Nick:Hey what's up, I'm Nick. Sam:Hi,I'm Sam. Sam:Nice to meet you. Woman:Hi, Man:Hi~ Woman:How are you? Alex:I'm well. I'm Alex. 
Portia:Nice to meet you Alex, I'm Portia. Woman:Solang-
Guy:Hola!
- Woman:Hola. 
Guy:Solange? Woman:You speak Spanish?
Guy:No,jus-just Hola. Woman:What do you do with your life? *Both laugh* Man:That's a really cute hairstyle, kinda reminds me of Tinkerbell. Man:Tinkerbell [repeated 3 times] Woman:I'll t-take that as a compliment....I think. Ethan:it's an awful,awful compliment...Right? Hila:Why are you trying to flirt?...Like, you're just supposed to kiss. 
Ethan:See, that's the part that gets me...All these guys... Ethan:...Try flirting. He says she looks like Tinker Bell...!...I mean....? Hila:It's not supposed to actually go anywhere....This is the human experiment. *Ethan laughs* Ethan:Yeah, I know. I'm trying to get some numbers and SMASH...Is what these guys are trying to do. Ethan:Tinkerbell...?
Man:"That's a really cute hairstyle, 
kinda reminds me of Tinkerbell" Ethan:That guy obviously just wanted to smash Tinker Bell as a kid. "That's a really cute hairstyle, kinda reminds me of Tinkerbell" Ethan:This girl is meanwhile thinking that,'I'm so glad I'm not into guys' Guy:So... Guy:...I was gonna ask how old you are, but I know you're not supposed to ask a girl that. Guy:Yeah...
Woman:Yeah... Guy:I'm the old guy.
Woman:You're not old.
Guy:I'm not used to being the old guy. Guy:you have beautiful eyes, by the way.
Girl:Thanks! Guy:Uhhh... Guy:I have to say that...l-like,there's yellow in the center.It's like really cool. Ethan:[sarcastically]"Oh man, he's so charming. I'm reconsidering everything I ever thought about my own sexuality". Hila:There's a little yellow in your eyes.
-Ethan[sarcastically]:Ohhhh...God, oh man, he noticed the yellow in my eye? Ethan[sarcastically]:"Nobody ever noticed the yellow in my eye before". Ethan:Ohhhh...man! Girl:Yeah, you look like you're gonna cry... *Girl laughs* Guy:Am I? Girl;Yeah.
Guy:I'm kinda nervous. *high five* Girl:So I think we're supposed to like...make out.
Guy: Let's make out. Guy:You want to make out? Woman:I mean...Do I have a choice? Woman:G H H H H *Woman laughs* G H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H  HH HH H Ethan:Why is this guy looking at her like he wants to eat her alive!?....I don't like him *Hila laughs* Ethan:I don't like anything about this guy. I feel bad for her. Guy:I think you got a little... Guy:No
Woman:No
Guy:No...Oh wait *chin grab* Guy:It's right here.... Ethan:Bro...that was...This guy is way too much for me.
Hila:it's like he came out of,ehh.Expert village *Ethan laughs* Guy:If I see a girl with blue eyes, I might say... Guy:w o w Guy:Your,your eyes are like blueberries Guy:Wait, can I actually? Can I actually...I'm kind of hungry.Can I-Can I have? Guy:I think you got a little... Guy:No
Woman:No Guy:No Guy:Oh!...wait *chin grab* Guy:It's right here.... Ethan:Have you ever kissed someone like that?.... *chin grab* Ethan[whispering]:Hey baby you got something right here..... Hila:If you did that...It's kind of like a... Hila:It's a red flag for me. Ethan:The chin grab? Hila:That's like the walk away. Ethan:Excuse me. I'm trying to do something here. Ethan:Hey, Hila, you got something right here. Ethan:No, seriously, you got some shit.Oh,no, it was right here... Ethan:It feels funny grabbing your chin like this Hila:Because you shouldn't... *chin grab* Guy:Was that good? Guy:Do we keep going? Guy:Whatever
Girl:Sure Girl:Okay *cringe intensifies* Ethan:Okay, let's not act like that was cute...I feel like she was legitimately creeped out Ethan:She's like,'all right, dude, the game's up!' Hila:They're having this moment where like... Hila:She can't let go Ethan:Right Hila:And She's like-
Ethan:She's like, dude.. Ethan:I feel like that edge between social experiment and sexual assault may have just been crossed...like watch this slow mo of him. Ethan:Pursuing her lips Girl:Okay Hila:What is the premise of the video?... like the people who put the video together? Ethan:Mhm... Hila:What are we supposed to learn? It's a kiss! Ethan:So the thesis is...That lesbian...There's no such thing as lesbians Ethan:They're pretending to be lesbians because they have never gotten a real kiss from a real gentleman before Hila:That's your- Ethan:That's the thesis. Hila:That you made up Ethan:OH MY GOD Ethan:Dude you know Ethan:It's bomb when it was produced by Jump cut Studios Ethan:The last thing I would ever expect to hear from a production studios...You know what this needs?...More jump cuts. Guy:All right Hila:I mean the guys seem to really enjoy it. 
Ethan:Well, of course! The guys enjoy it that was never in question Hila:But the girls are like,'yeah..whatever' Ethan:Exactly!...All the girls like,'this was so awkward' and dudes are like,'I'm chubbed up like...' Ethan:I thought we were...I thought we had a real connection Hila:The video is called "Lesbians try kissing men. It's more like men try kissing lesbians 
Ethan:And one sexually assaulting Girl:Okay Guy:I don't know. I mean that's it's like what I usually do so.... C R I N G E Ethan:Dude no....no dude....No...NO! Ethan: N O! Ethan:I Can't watch this!......Hila.... Hila:Yeah?
Ethan:Can you cut?...
Hila:I don't wanna watch the video Ethan:Can you cut slits where my eyes are? So I don't have to expose my face to this Hila:You're gonna cut your eye out. Ethan:Better than watching another second of this! Oh my god! This is kind of horrifying *Hila laughs* Ethan:This is terrifying, Hila, I can't help but feel that this is somehow racist. *Hila laughs* Ethan:I don't know why but I just can't help but feel like there's something wrong with what we are doing here. *Hila laughs* Ethan:I can't explain it tho. Bar mitzva Elmo:Bar mitzva Elmo thinks that your blackface is even better than,the gucci blackface :) Ethan:I'm not in blackface bar mitzva!.I know that's completely... Ethan:Inappropriate!. Where do you even learn these things? Guy:Were you nervous at all? 
Girl:No
Guy:I feel like I attacked you with that kiss.
Girl:Yeah! You did! Ethan:Why do you think this guy went so aggressive,was he trying to be seductive? Hila:Um, I think he was just very passionate at the moment
 Ethan:Right 
Hila:And he thought Hila:She was losing control over him
Ethan:Right Hila:Cause he is so unresistable Ethan:All right. This was the beginning of a beautiful love affair. 
Hila:And that happens to them every day.
Ethan:Right Ethan:Sure, of course.
Hila:But that was gonna change her life.
Ethan:Right
Hila:Forever Ethan:Right.
Guy:I'm that close to crying. 
Girl:I know Girl:I was hoping that.
Guy:You were hoping i was gonna cry? Girl:I'm sorry, but it was awkward Girl:It was.... Girl:The lips,the lips are so different.All girls have just wonderful soft lips. Girl:This was my best kiss.
Guy:Your best kiss?...I'm sorry Guy:I'm sorry. 
Girl:That's okay.
Guy: I was your best one. Girl:Yeah
Guy:Was it really? Girl:No. *Guy gulps* *"No" echoes* Girl:Okay. *Police sirens* *Guy gulps* *woosh* Girl:This was my best kiss. Girl:Yeah
Guy:Was it really? Girl:No. *Guy gulps* *previous clips repeat* Girl:Okay Ethan:So in short, how did lesbians enjoy kissing men?...They didn't. Hila:They did not enjoy it. Ethan:Yeah, so Hila can you explain why this video has 22 million views?...The data was not interesting.... Ethan:Um,the drama was not there. Can somebody please explain why this has 22 million views?..Hila? Ethan:You know when I'm putting in the title of this video....lesbians kissing lesbians!...Lesbiansssssss!!! Ethan:GONE LESBIAN Girl:This was my best kiss. Guy:Your best kiss?...I'm sorry
Girl:Yeah Guy:I'm sorry. That was your best one. 
Girl:Yeah 
Guy:Was it really? Ethan:Well for scientific purposes, the same channel has a video called "Gay men try kissing women" Ethan:For the first time, how do you think this one turns out? Guy:I'm gonna be 25 in 8 days Girl:Oh,okay,you just looked alot younger Bar mitzvah Elmo:Bar mitzvah Elmo knows that's what you call a "twink".He is a tight little gay man without any- Ethan:Bar mitzvah Elmo,what is wrong with you? Ethan:So Hila do you think that gay men are going to switch their sexual orientation after kissing a girl? Hila:For sure. 
Ethan:Absolutely Ethan:Huge woodies dude.But I don't think the women are gonna try so hard Ethan:To convert them. Like, I feel like the men their masculinity is on the line.
Hila:That's true Ethan:If I don't convert this girl my dick,shrinks an inch Ethan:Permanently Ethan:So, let's see.
Guy:I'm ready Guy:Yeah,this is literally the first time I've ever kissed a girl so that'll be interesting. Girl:I get to be your first girl kiss?!
Guy:It's gonna be really special Ethan:This video sucks cuz It is not as good at all. There's not enough lesbians. It doesn't have lesbians in the title Ethan:It doesn't have awkward madhouse looking guys trying to seduce the lesbians. This video sucks. Bar mitzvah Elmo:I nutted Ethan:But it has 12 million views Ethan:So let's keep watching Girl:How was that?
Guy:It was pretty normal Ethan:Do you notice that they're not making out,it's just a peck,because nobody's trying that hard.You got none of this Ethan:There's none of this happening. You know what I'm saying? Dudes kind of...dudes are gross. I'm sorry dudes are freakin gross Hila:Did this video change you? Ethan:Kind of! Like you don't see these,you don't see gay men being like or the girls being like,'hey, baby, you look like Tinkerbell' Ethan:That being said I am...my,my Instagram Dms are open.Me and bar mitzva... Ethan:Elmo have been thinking and we've got some ideas for some real human experiments. Hila, let me ask you this Ethan:Can I drink some of your breast milk? Hila:You can try it Hila:I don't think you'll like it 
Ethan:I don't have plans but it seems like something you do when your..... Ethan:....Wife is lactating, but I wouldn't drink it from the tip,alright?.I would drink it from like a bottle... Hila:It's like...I don't think it's just like splashes.... Ethan:So... Ethan: There we go.Now that's a video.Now. that's a human experiment...Girl,man tries...Sucks tip milk out for the first time. Hila:I think Buzzfeed... Hila: Has probably already done it. 
Ethan:Are you gonna try your own breast milk? Hila:I didn't really think about it.
Ethan:These are questions that as a woman who's expecting.... Hila:You would't like it,you would just be like,'gross' Ethan:Well, I don't expect to make a habit of it.Be like,'Hey Hila can I get a glass of breast milk' *Hila laughs* Ethan:You know what I'm saying? the baby's got to eat.And I'm gonna be trying tip milk LIVE here on this YouTube channel.LIVE Ethan:I'll be on one tit and Theodore will be on the other Ethan:It's gonna be a thrilling..... Ethan:....experiment a... Ethan:SHOCKING experiment! Hila:Interesting Ethan:Am I?...Do I have your consent to do that? Hila:No.
Ethan:Oh Ethan:Well, that didn't stop,ehh...a couple of these guys. Did it? And a big THANK YOU to Dollar Shave Club for sponsoring us Ethan:/H3h3.Link is in the description. Thank you for watching guys 