This is a neodymium magnet - it's pretty darn
strong. And now, after heating it in a flame... it's
no longer magnetic. What just happened? Well, to build a magnet, all you need to do
is find a bunch of magnetic atoms (that's easy - they're the ones with half-filled electron
shells in the middle of any of the major blocks of the periodic table) and then make a compound
where the magnetic fields of the atoms align in the same direction - this is Ferromagnetism,
named after Iron, which is pretty darn magnetic. However, it's not so easy - sometimes the
atoms actually want to align their magnetic fields in alternating directions - this is
called "anti-ferromagnetism," and it means the bulk material won't have a magnetic field
at all. Or, sometimes the tendency of the atomic magnets
to align (or anti-align) is just too weak to overcome their intrinsic jiggling - that
is, their temperature! In which case, even though all the individual
atoms in the material are magnetic, once more the material as a whole isn't. However, in a strong external magnetic field,
the atoms do tend to align with each other in the direction parallel to the field. This is called "para-magnetism," and liquid
oxygen is a great example - it's attracted by a magnet, though it doesn't stay magnetized
afterwards. But let's get back to the question - how do
you destroy a magnet? Well, a material can only be ferromagnetic
if its temperature is low enough: above a certain point, the nicely ordered atomic magnetic
fields "melt" into disorder, just as ice crystals melt into water when heated past zero celsius. So to destroy a magnet, you just need to heat
it up past its "magnetic melting point", called the "Curie Temperature" - it probably won't
look like much is happening, but once the atoms are jiggling around enough, when they
cool off, their magnetic fields will no longer all point in the same direction. Magnet destroyed! And just as different elements melt from solid
to liquid at different temperatures, they also melt from being ferromagnetic to paramagnetic
at different temperatures, which you can explore in this sweet interactive periodic table. Which also plays all  