- Hi there I'm Jarvis and
we're all going to die. It's true, technically. I didn't, I didn't say when. There's a pandemic sweeping the nation and it's not the one you think. Kids everywhere are being affected by what experts are
calling a brand new strain of FOMO known as FOM-C. The fear of missing clout. FOM-C is spreading like wildfire. Also the parties these kids are having are both wild and fire. Hi, I'm Dad. In all seriousness, these young YouTubers can't stop partying. And in the words of OG YouTuber, Will Smith, parents just don't understand. Let's start with the young influencer that needs no introduction, except for this one of me introducing him. Jake Paul, Jake Paul's 2020 has been
excellent by all accounts. A couple of months ago, he tweeted out that this had been
his biggest year of growth and he'd learned so much about himself that he never knew. "It's okay to not have all the answers, it's okay to fail, it's okay to change who you are, it's okay to not be right, be patient, great things are coming". And boy was he wrong! Well, he's right about a few things. It is okay to not have all the answers. Like for example, should you have a bunch of illegal guns in your mansion? Yes or no? (quiz show music) No? See, I would've, I
would've gotten that one wrong. He also took a valiant
stance against YouTube for holding him accountable
for his actions. So that was cool to see. "Let's not let YouTube win here. They do this to creators
whenever they please, whenever they see a risk, whenever they want to protect themselves, I'm one of YouTubers riskiest creators and they're punishing me for it. New video's out now". Always be plucking. "YouTube has me shadow banned
and won't push my videos to whoever is subscribed because the videos are
"unsuitable" for their audience. We're too much of a
publicity risk for them". I guess that's technically true but he's really missing
the major point here that his videos are dangerous content. He's not a good influence. This stupid China shop won't
let me, a bull, into it because I'm too much of a
publicity risk for them. I mean, come on. This is oppression. "So swipe up if you haven't
seen this week's rated r video and let's not let YouTube
stop the movement". What is the movement? Well, you'll see a few short weeks later Jake tweeted out "grass". So that should clear everything up. - YouTube star Jake Paul
has made a name for himself doing dangerous stunts
but now he's being accused of putting scores of other people at risk. - More outrageous footage
is emerging from an out of control party at a
mansion in California. The new video shows
party goers precariously dangling from an excavator,
then falling to the ground. No one is wearing masks
or social distancing. - I can't help but think they're focusing on the wrong thing here. - Footage of YouTube celebrity
Jake Paul's mansion party features guests being flung
hundreds of feet in the air via human catapult to
their eventual death. And from the looks of
it not a single person washed their hands. Bad, bad. Clearly these people
are being irresponsible, you don't have to convince us of that. Also this video gives
Jake way too much credit. It's called "Jake Paul's
seemingly not socially-distant party criticized". Why did you have to cut him so much slack? Is this what journalism is? - Based on the available footage we cannot empirically confirm or deny that social distancing
was happening at the party. But fortunately we partnered with the MIT mathematics department to get
to the bottom of the case. Coming to you live from MIT is
our nerd correspondent, Carl. Carl? - Thanks Jevin. Those who are familiar with
the Lord of the Rings films will be aware of Peter
Jackson's masterful use of force perspective. These simple camera tricks
allowed Gandalf the Gray to appear nine feet tall compared
to his Hobbit counterpart. - Where's this going? - And we think Jake may have
employed similar tactics for his party. Now, if you'll, excuse me,
it's my turn on the excavator. Jevin. - Thanks Carl. What fun! Now we can't say for sure but some think that Jake Paul's party is bad. We reached out to the
Paul camp for comment and they simply replied "grass". Back to you, Jarvis. - Well, that's a bit I enjoy too much. So to my knowledge, Jake
Paul hasn't responded to this except for when
Tyler Oakley tweeted "Fuck Jake Paul". And Jake retweeted it because I assume it makes him stronger. Well that and the eating Reese's puffs out of a shoe, that's an influencer thing, you probably wouldn't get it. Then this creator Tanner Fox
who went to Jake's party, ended up testing positive for Coronavirus and told Jake about it. And they're just like laughing like on the call and
not taking it seriously. - I woke up and I felt a little bit off. So I went and got a Covid-19
test and it actually came back positive. - [Jake Paul] Nah you're, you're tripping. - I don't know what to tell you. - [Jake Paul] You're not joking? - I'm really not joking
right now, man, I swear. I swear to God. - [Jake Paul] Well... - Eventually they take it seriously but it's a pretty weird look. During the video someone in the background literally yells "We don't care". - Are you, are you worried about it? - [Jake Paul] Not really. (laughing) - We don't care! So, the children are our future. Anyway, enough of that old geezer, let's talk about the
new kids on the block. One of the largest party perpetrators, one of the, one of the
largest party perps, is the Creator houses, which almost exclusively
refers to Tik Tok creators. You got Hype House, Sway House, a haunted house, Cory in the house. Oh, you've never heard
of Cory in the house? It's a, it's a Tik Tok
house, exclusively for fans of Disney channel in
the mid two thousands. Pretty niche but the parties are sick. (coughing) What's that sound? - A cough? - No, no that sound (new Tik Tok house) New Tik Tok house alert! It's a good thing we installed that alarm 'cause these Tik Tok
houses are multiplying at an alarming rate. Still Dad. Which brings me to Alpha House, a brand new Creator house that launched a week ago, in a pandemic. So we're just, we're just, we're still making Creator
houses in a pandemic it seems. Now that sick. - Cough, cough, I'm dying. - Alpha House was in the
news recently because they broke the speed run record for fastest time from house
creation to quarantine party. They've apparently had a
party almost every night according to neighbors
and anonymous sources. And apparently the last party
they had had like 150 people. So, more like Omega house. Am I right? I hate watching these teens be sexy. It feels so, I don't want to be exposed to this. Don't, ah, stop it, quit it. So, can, stop. New creator mansion alert, the Alpha House launched on Saturday. It's a six bedroom sprawling
pad in the valley made up of all 17 year old and
18 year old influencers. Like, is that a rule? Like if you're, you're not 17 or 18 you're not allowed in Alpha House? What's supposed to? That seems, I mean, that would be a little short-sighted if you ask me. Like what's supposed to happen next year? Is that like, is that Beta Houses problem? What about when somebody has a birthday? Do you have to like sit 'em down? Look, Tanner, it's been a great six months with you here at Alpha House but as today is your birthday, (sword scraping) now you must die. I'm kind of jealous. 'cause it seems like they
have like fraternities and stuff and they didn't even have to go to college. Back in my day, if I wanted Greek life, I had to go to the Parthenon. History Dad! We can't talk about
these quarantine ragers without mentioning the
house of hype itself. There's this New York times article, why influencers won't stop
partying anytime soon, it kind of chronicles all of the influencer party shenanigans. Including the fact that
none of these people are wearing masks. So, um, first things first, you know. Pretty much everybody was there, Emma Chamberlain, James Charles, the D'Amelio sisters, the Sway Boys, everybody knows them. Hype House has become notorious for their quarantine ragers. In fact they, they blazed the trail of partying without masks. Watch out parents, these
kids are a bad influence. This article is full of
these kids making excuses for why they're partying
with hundreds of people. The worst of which is
that this is their job. Come on, come on, we
got to go to the party. Our fans want to see us die. Thomas Petrou who I think is
the founder of Hype House, is 21. So he wouldn't survive
a day in Alpha House. Our jobs are to entertain people. We live with groups of people and we're all intertwined with work. We can't put our entire lives on hold for a year and not make any money. I know this guy is 21 but he may as well be a 16
year old Bobby Tarantino 'cause this is some
straight up teen logic. "It's not just fun, it's work too", Mr. Petrou said while doing a keg stand. Why does he think his options are have a party with hundreds
of people or starve to death? You said right here, you
live with groups of people. So just make content with them. You don't want to be riding with the Sway Boys, because from the looks of it they don't even practice
proper seatbelt safety. I kind of get that it would feel like you're putting your life on
hold if you stopped partying. But what you have to understand is that if you keep partying you may be putting other
people's lives on stop. And, and this is just
a little business tip, you don't make money if you die. So something to keep in mind. The YouTuber Jake Paul recently
hosted an event at his home in Calabasas where guests swung from
construction machinery, we know about that one. He got Sway Gaming on Monday
and the Nelk Boys on Tuesday. Why does Sway Gaming
and the Nelk Boys sound like a 1940s gang from
a John Mulaney joke? And if anyone asks, tell
them it was Sway Gaming and the Nelk Boys. So I don't know any of these people, I don't know the names
of the houses, clearly, I don't know the names of
the influencers, clearly. I guess I gotta, I guess I
gotta brush up on this a bit but I looked up Sway Gaming
because I was confused, right? Like there's a Sway Gaming
House and a Sway House but it seems like the
Sway Gaming House is a house where people host parties and don't play games at all. Now you may be thinking, are
these parties, land parties? No nerd! They're cool parties,
which I know a lot about. They have pizza and like no Moms. So from looking into it, it seems like Sway Gaming
is just trying to like clout chase on the name of Sway House 'cause it has nothing to do
with them as far as I know. And it was created by
the dude who runs the Reaction Time channel. So that's weird. You go to the Sway Gaming website, it, they tell you that they need to "preform" maintenance. So what I can say for sure is that they're not
spelling in that house. So then I looked up the Nelk Boys, because I was curious, and, whew, where do I start? Well, first off they're Canadian. So, you know Drake's a fan. They Nelk Boys are pictured here. I presume shortly after beating up a bunch of Best Buy employees and
stealing their uniform. Since, since the pandemic began the Nelk Boys have been
traveling the country spreading pranks and Coronavirus. But don't judge them too quickly 'cause they've also got a
social justice side to them. For example, they have
courageously used their inalienable right to protest. Uh... What are they protesting? Uh... They're protesting the closure of gyms. What a great cause. So I'd never heard of the Nelk Boys before and holy s**t they suck. - Who am I? What am I doing? Should I hit you? Should I not? - [Jarvis] Somebody better
give this guy what he wants or else he's going to
eat the other Nelk Boys. This is your protest for gyms? (crowd roaring) First of all, this is terrifying. If I saw this coming down the street I would run the other way. Also how do you even have this idea? Bro, you know what's the biggest problem in the world right now? - [Devin] Coronavirus? - I can't get my gains - [Devin] Oh, no I, yeah
I was going to say that. - I was inspired by all these
protests that are going on about like, I dunno,
black lives or some s**t. - [Devin] I don't like
where this is going. - What have we had our own protest, nay, a brotest. - [Devin] A brotest? - Cause it's unhealthy
to stay at home all day. - [Devin] Yeah, but I'm
pretty sure Covid is worse. - Shut up Devin we'll wear a mask, sometimes. Anyway, in this video Nelk Boy slash Fred Flintstone impersonator,
Steve will do it and his friend slash trainer Bradley, who is best known, by me, for wearing a bikini for Dan Bilzerian. They've this protest to like
keep Bradley's gym open. - Protests that gyms
should opened back up. - Should open back up. - If you're wondering why this gym is open it's 'cause Brad sees a pandemic and says he sees money signs so. - No, no, I didn't. - So it's dumb. Bradley's like a big influencer and shit. Like come on. I don't even know what you're
supposed to do at a brotest but apparently it's
binge drink on the street like it's fucking Mardi Gras. At one point in this video,
he shotguns a White Claw in what must be the most confusing show of toxic masculinity I've ever seen. Also the videos about the brotest are somehow worse than the brotest itself. They're full of jokes making
light of sexual assault. Of course, hilarious, bro. (shirt ripping) - It's so perfect too, he's so used to doing it like on dresses and skirts and shit. - Assault of your own employees. - She's really f***ing p***ing me off. I gotta take out my anger,
I gotta take out my... (punching sound) (scream) Yeah that's what you get
you f***ing dumb assistant. - Parading around the token black guy, which makes me uncomfortable. - Bradley check out his sign. What do you think? - Yo, that's dope! - Oh, and more sex crime humor. Or what those with a more
refined pallet may call vintage 2012 Shane Dawson. - Right now we're here
at Brad's podcast room. It's his own personal gym island, it's soundproof, its r*pe proof. - He has all the victims
sign the wall and s**t. - [Jarvis] Yeah and then
he goes on to make a joke about an underage victim. So it's really top shelf stuff. I don't have enough time to get into everything wrong with this video but it's the most bro-y
content I've ever seen. It's safe to say that the Nelk Boys are up to their Nelks in
quarantine festivities. Nelk Dad. But this video did teach me something. It taught me that you
can make any word toxic by adding the word bro to it. Excuse me, hey bro, can you point me
to the bro-duce section? Doctor? Call me broctor. Broctor, I'm here for my brostate exam. Bad news, babe, I just found out I was laid off. I don't know how I'm going
to brovide for our family. Oh, what's that? I've been rehired, scratch that babe, I was rehired. Let's kick back tonight and watch an episode of broperty brothers. Yay a happy ending. That was getting too real. So the Nelk Boys were at all these parties and there's more than just
the one, I just got distracted and we don't have time. Bunch of influencers have
already apologized for showing up at these parties
because everyone got mad at them and their PR people told them to because it's not like
they've stopped partying. There's a quote in this article from a 25 year old creator, who is basically a senior
citizen by Alpha House standards. I presume they interviewed
him in a nursing home. "It's like Covid isn't a
thing when we're at them" he said. He said he tries to stay responsible. How? You go to the parties but
you try to stay responsible? What are you just like in a corner? I'm just here for the clout, ah six feet. Anyway, he says that people
are just apologizing to save face 'cause they show up at
the parties next weekend. So, this old man has a point. On the brand side, some
people are seeing the light. Dixie D'Amelio, who seems
perfectly nice, has said that people shouldn't be
going to these parties. So that's neat. Now this was a few days after her own birthday party, but she's 19 now so she's
matured enough to know that these parties are a bad idea. Let's raise a Dixie cup to you. Not everybody's apologizing to save face. Nope, Nope. Some of these little
rabble-rousers are like f**k you humanity, I'm gonna celebrate my 21st birthday if it's the last thing I do. Literally. I'm willing to put everyone else at risk because my brain is still
developing and I'm baby, the wittle baby in
question here is Bryce Hall of House Sway. First of his name, purveyor of merch, guardian of likes, ticker of tocs. Apparently he had a huge 21st
birthday bonanza a week ago. So we've already been knee deep into shaming influencers for parties. This man truly does not give a s**t, or at least that's what
he wants you to think because it seems like his
whole brand is trying really, really hard to make you
think that he doesn't care. - Paparazzi asked me but I did. I'm kind of like a really honest guy. And remember I practice
authen-f***ing-thicity dude. Everything that I post
is real, completely. (laughing) - Which is cool. Let's just go at it like that. - What do you guys think
about Bryce's party because a lot of people were saying that he might've like
had too many people over? - I mean, no comments. It's his 21st. I mean, I'm not saying I agree with it but it's his 21st dude! - Hard to argue with
that, I mean it is true. Everybody came to this
mother****ing party. Obviously the Nelk Boys were there, FaZe Banks was there, of course,
always got to invite him. Weirdly Harry from Too
Hot to Handle was there. I uh, I presume he was there to yell crikey and make plans for brunch. - Crikey and then boom, girls come over. I'm like, let's go,
let's go get some brunch. - So this party was a f***ing rager man, they had, they had male
strippers dressed as cops, which is a little tasteless right now. I mean read the room. And then the actual cops showed up, so you know, that must've been awkward, a little, it's like a
real life Spiderman beam. Ha. It's always weird, it's always weird to see your coworkers in their personal lives. What happened to Bryce? Well, nothing initially, except
for he started like beefing with the city of Los Angeles. First I wanna talk about
why people are going to these parties. And the short answer is, I don't know, like, not fearing any consequences, and the clout. If your whole brand is, is
living out a reality show in real life, then you can't, you can't stop. You can't stop for a pandemic. There's no, there's no pandemic episodes of the Real Housewives. I guess they are doing the bachelor, So maybe there is a safer way to do this. There's clout to be gained, there's beef to start, merch to sell. You know, how else are you going to move, move units? Bryce has 21st birthday merch. How else is he going to make those sales? Now it's a collector's item, I assume. - I just dropped, no I didn't drop merch 'cause I actually drop it on my birthday. This is the birthday merch everybody, go cop it on my birthday. August 14th, you see the boys flexing out, they looks sexy, they look great and they look fucking lavish boys. If you wear the merch you actually immediately get swell because gains. Look at these dude. You think, you think I had this before
I fuckin' started wearing it? - Man, I need to get into the merch game. I want to make a video
of me like standing up with all my boys in the background
doing absolutely nothing while I promote my merch. So maybe I should just give it a go. Next time you're thinking of
going to an influencer party, don't. But if you do, do it with
a trying my best face mask. Trying my best face masks. All my boys love it. There are laws, right? Like this is not legal. I just don't understand
why they're allowed to keep gathering like this because isn't it a public health risk? I'm no epidemiologist, but like, it seems like someone should step in to stop these kids who clearly don't care. I keep saying kids, but
this buff guy is 31. Like bro, what are you doing here? The mayor of LA has threatened
to turn off water and power at these Creator
houses if they keep partying, but nothing has happened yet. Which I presume is because the mayor wants to find out if Addison and Bryce are
going to get back together. Break, breaking news alert. The power has been shut off. And Bryce hall said "Suddenly
the turns have tabled". So he's, he's taking it, he's taking it very, very seriously. - I mean we deserve it. It is illegal, but we deserve it. - Oh, okay. But we still do live in the dark times. 'cause he, he doesn't have Coronavirus. Congrats, congrats man. And now everybody in the replies is like, "Now everybody can stop, stop getting on you because it was getting annoying". "Whoever hates him, y'all are clowns". It's not, we don't, it wasn't about whether
or not he had Coronavirus. We're not supposed to... Social distancing. Don't have parties right now. It doesn't matter. (groans) You're missing the point children. Yeah, I get how tough it can
be to be a kid right now. I mean, I keep saying kid, but some of these people
are not that much younger than me. But anyway, the point isn't whether or not this particular person has Covid and it's not about whether
or not this is bad. Like we know it's bad,
everyone knows it's bad. They're still doing it anyway. And that's the problem. Anyway, I'm not going to solve
the world's problems here. This situation is still developing. I just hope that we can, you know, we can look out for one
another or something. Send them a million ding , nice. 