B, FaceTime video. Oh, no. Hey, B! Oh no. Well, what's, what's wrong. Look at that hair. You've gone for the top knot, B. Well, it goes all over my
face otherwise, doesn't it, B? Well, B, as you can see, I've been having to make several
videos without you in them. And I'm sick of it, to be honest, I've got no one
to talk to in these things. Aw, well, I'm sick of not being in them. I've just got no one to talk to, period. For those who don't know, Dan and I for eight of the ten years
we've been doing this channel, we've lived about 5,000 miles apart, two different continents. And currently due to
planetary pandemic situations, we can't travel to each other. Technically I can go to England but I have a real hard
time getting back here, and then we don't have cameras in England and you can only come
here if you're a diplomat, right? I think it's if you're
a diplomat, the queen or you're like American
or something like that. So I've had an idea, we can't make videos during the pandemic but there's nothing stopping us from making a video before the pandemic. I mean, I can think of a
couple of problems with that Right? Go ahead. Firstly, that would require time travel. Yeah. Yeah. So that would be the main problem. You're 100 percent right. I was thinking if any
YouTuber had a time machine it would probably be Colin Furze, and we've never made a
video with him before. He's always doing mad stuff. So I think we'll get,
if we get hold of Colin and then we'll just plan a
time when we were both free. Yeah. It's very rare that we were both together but not filming Slow-mo Guys. So when would be a good time? I know you came back to England for a bit because you were
like, just wanted a rest. Yeah. There was a time
between Super Slow Show and Planet Slow-mo where I just had a
restful week in England. We didn't film anything,
but we were both together. Yeah. Just having a laugh. If Colin was free that week. Perfect. I think that might work. We could sort out a Phantom
rental, nearby place. Should I give him a,
should I give him a bell? Yeah. Give him a call. Alright, hold on. Hey, all right Colin? How's it going? Hey, you all right
Slow-Mos? What we up to? Wondering what the chances are of you having a time machine. What's the time machine sitch? Yeah. What's the time machine sitch? I've kind of got a time machine. I've kind of got, I've got
well, maybe 50, 50% of it. 50% better than nowt, to be honest. Well, yeah. I mean
that's at least 50% more of a time machine we've got. Full blown Delorean. Yeah, that's pretty sweet. Colin. We were wondering
about a cheeky collab. Are you free, or should I say were you free in November of 2017 November, 2017. Let me think. All right. There will be a gap, when I was building the TIE
fighter up at Tom's farm. You come and see me then
and I think that would work. Brilliant, Colin, pick
us up when you're ready. Stick the kettle on, yeah? Excellent. Right? I'll get it sorted and I'll
presume we had a lovely time, well, I'll know in a minute, won't I? Yeah, yeah, I look forward to it, wait... Looked forward to it? No. I don't know Yeah, can't wait, couldn't wait. I couldn't have waited. What? Hello. I'm Gav.
I'm Dan. We're the Slow-mo Guys and today we're not in my back garden. In fact, you may realize
where we are already. We are in a prop shed though. That's true. Quite different from ours. Ours has, you know bits of string, balloons,
condoms, maybe a spade. This one's got Wolverine
claws, magnet boots real mantles like lathes
and all sorts of cool stuff. It also contains Colin Furze. Yes, me. How's it going? Thanks for having us Colin. It's a very famous room and I'm, I'm delighted to be stood in it. So what we're going to
film today, in slow-mo? Well. I've got one of these. Just casually lying around. The pulse jet engine. Now these things are super cool. They make, like, loads of noise. They go red hot. They spit fire out. They're awesome. But everyone always asks
me how do they work? What's going on inside? So I thought, well, you know, you two could come in really handy here It seems like we should
point one of these at it. Phantom Flex 4K right through the window. Yep. You get a thousand frames a second easy. Sounds good. Are we doing it here in the shed? No, we are not doing it in here. Okay, good, good Onward! I'm bringing my cuppa. Jealous. Now we're in the field. Right? Look at this dry stone wall here. Lovely little view, ah,
the pulse jet engine. Here we are. Here we are then, pulse jet, Slow-mo Guys got the
high speed camera set up they don't know what's
going to happen yet, he's just going to push the trigger when he thinks he should do,
right, let's get it started. I felt like my heart, I bet if I was wearing a heart monitor that would register. I would say the term for it is it thrums. Thrums! Yeah. I think that's the right word. It is kind of like the Eye of Mordor. Yeah, the Eye of Sauron Not sure I wanna look down there now. For those of you who don't know what the pulse jet actually is, if you haven't seen Colin's videos what it's doing is creating explosions in this chamber and it sends a wave of pressure out the long
and short ends of the tube. That's the jet part. As the wave expands it leaves a near vacuum
behind in the chamber. So fresh air and oxygen rush in the short end and hot
gases are sucked back from the long end which ignites a new burst of fuel. And the whole cycle repeats
itself, many times a second which is why it's very
useful to be filming this with the Phantom. Shall we then now we've got that, Should we try and rev it a bit harder? Well, I'll rev it up a little bit. Push the red button and
then switch it off, yeah? Colin is now operating the Phantom so we're not even needed, honestly. Fire always looks kind of CG to me when it's this slow this is 3000 frames a second. It looks like it's just
going in one direction. But if I speed it up slightly you can see that it's sort of
swaying inside the cylinder. Yeah. Should we start filming down the spout then? Yeah, lets start filming down the spout. We haven't even got it glowing yet. Cause we can get the whole
thing glowing red, nearly. So you may have noticed here that the camera is about,
what, a foot from danger? Actually it's probably- 14 inches. Every man overestimates. Always quite scary shoving a
Phantom down the danger hole but that's where you get the best footage. This is like the best angle. All right, good. It's going back down a little bit, isn't it? Back down the barrel. It used to suck more air in. If we do rev it even
harder, you will get flames, that might travel further. So move back on the
camera and rev it harder? Yeah, I think so, I think
your 14 inches might- So we're a little bit further back and Colin is going to give
it all the beans this time. Now I don't know if you saw it, but when that was first getting going,
there was a massive flame. Like all around here. You see that? I didn't see it. It was like right on your head. My head or his head? Both of your heads, it was massive. What? Can't have been. It was, it was just like, I
guess some excess loose gas. That was just- Well that's always good to know. A bit of loose gas flying around. If it's just burning itself. It's not using us as burning material. It's actually just like a nice heat. Is that smoke, or is that flame? Have a look at this, what is this? What am I looking at? That's blue flame. Let me see. Yeah. You see, you can see it breathing. Oh, that's wicked actually. So for this one, my job
is just stand still. Dan is a human background. I'm a background. You're doing the job of the two C stands I'm also wearing ear defenders because I'm going to go deaf if it starts going right next to my head. So this is the first shot
we're doing from the outside. Just looking at, see if we're
getting flame coming out. The spouts. See if you can film the
spitty spitty stuff. Am I safe here? Yeah, you're fine. He says. We'll just, if flames come out, just move. You'll be all right. I love it For a brief moment, you'll be hotter. It was kicking a bit that one, wasn't it? Good, good reflexes, went right
over the top of your head. My hoodie is like burning to a crisp here. Feel my hoodie, this
was soft a minute ago. Feel this, it's gone like crunchy. That's all right, stick
it in the washing machine. It'll be fine. Brilliant. You feel the heat, Dan? Yeah. Rippling. I can see it. Imagine if models used
that as like, you know when the wind blown hair with
the winds being blown around. Well, if the hair was wet, it wouldn't be for much longer. It's a good point. It's coming out the side of the glass. What is? The flames the gas and
the flames are coming out of the side of the glass. Oh, whoops. Colin, you've got a leak! Oh, yeah, it is. See some of that? It follows the outside,
there's like a beefier part, here in the middle and then the flames
come around the outside and then clap together
and go back down again. It's amazing how much it can go on. Yeah. In a fraction of a second. And it's, yeah, cause it is doing that in milliseconds. Isn't it? Yeah. Blowing out, sucking- You wouldn't think it could
and that's just all on its own. Right? So we've slow-mo'd it, we have a better idea of
what's going on inside. I think we just get it going red hot now. Yeah. Just leave it
going for, a lot longer? Yeah, just keep it
going, just let it glow, Maybe then the glass may break. Cause I am shocked that it has not broken. Will the steel melt I mean, what? I don't think it'll melt I've never got a stainless one to melt What is the melting
point of stainless steel? I think it's 1200 degrees. Oh, that is hot. Oh, the heat! You can't get anywhere near it. It's singeing the table. I don't know. My hands are quite cold, actually, I reckon I could get pretty close. That was redders in there. It's actually changed the
color of the glass as well. Oh yeah. It's gone all green. Oh man. This is lush as a radiator though. Probably wouldn't want to touch that. Oh lovely. Oh, nice. Nice, nice in an English winter, right? Yeah. That was some lovely looking footage. Big thanks to Colin Furze for letting us come
and film his pulse jet. It was class. Colin is secretly my
favorite British YouTuber. So make sure you give
him a big wet subscribe. Subscribe to us as well, if you want. And we will see you in the next
episode of the Slow-mo Guys. How long would it take you to get home, if you took this, like as
your method of propulsion? Are you talking home to Texas? Yeah, yeah. Long old time. Just sitting on the ocean. Good luck with that. I was pretty close, almost got singed. How am I, how are my hairs looking? Well, the eyelashes, hang on. Really? Really? Can you see like the turned up edges? Yeah. You got a little bit of ginger at the end of them now. Oh no! No! I'm proud of these bad boys as well. You're proud of them? You called your eyelashes bad boys. Yeah. There's so long and lovely. 