Guys, I have bad news. And it's also good news. As much as you wish you could, YOU CAN'T STOP BAD THINGS FROM HAPPENING Let's talk about the human brain for a minute, okay? Jordan * 6 When you are watching, the news, or reading twitter updates, on horrible things happening in the world, your brain is desperately trying to make sense of the situation. See, your brain, It likes to feel safe and comfortable. :P Bad news, disrupts your brain's natural state. :( So, to compensate  your brain does a- a couple of things. #1. It looks for a bad guy Someone to blame for this, Disruption. A super-hero villain, responsible for the world's ills. Because  wouldn't it be nice if you could blame one person for all the bad things? (Sarah) What are we going to do about all these bank robberies that have been happening? (Josh) *hugh* I-I think we need to Get the-Green Goblin, he's the one doing it. (Sarah) Yea. And then your brain looks for a way That the bad things could have been prevented. Because your brain doesn't like the idea of living in a world Where this kind of bad news, Can just happen willy-nilly. So you appeal to whoever your favorite authority figure is In a desperate play to make sense of the sadness. (Josh and Jordan) PLEASE! Make me feel sake again! But no matter what you do, No matter how appealing your appeal is Bad things, keep happening. Almost like, You have zero control over anything. But the idea of not having control, is, very hard for your brain to wrap its... (er...) head, around. :| But that's the hard truth. You can't do much of anything, about much of anything! I'm sorry-I know that doesn't FEEL right, but let's be realistic here. (Big Head Kid) *nervous laugh* Umm, he's always so sarcastic like this. (Jordan from computer) No, I-I'm being serious. I know it's nice to feel like, "One person can make a difference" But come on. This is a-quite a big world, with a lot of people, And you can't control them. Which means YOU CAN'T STOP BAD THINGS FROM HAPPENING! I-I know that's, very depressing but I Promise, you'll be a lot happier when- when you stop feeling responsible for things you have no control over. See, we live in an age, where everything is broadcast live. So things are always going to seem terrible because we hear about every single terrible thing that happens. unless it's, in the third world and isn't great for ratings In which case we-we never hear about any of those things. Look, the news isn't trying to inform you okay, they're just trying to keep you watching. (Josh as News Man) TONIGHT! A murderer is on the loose! We speak with an eye witness who's going to share all the gory details of the crime. Sally-please tell us what you saw that night. (Sarah as Sally) Oh, it was terrible! I mean, he just, Pulled out a fork and he just started... (Josh as News Man) Uh, I'm sorry, I'm going to have to interrupt you Because something even worse has just happened, We're hearing reports of a BOMBING, ON ELM STREET! Let's go live to our correspondent on the ground there. What can you tell us about the scene? (Jordan as Big Head Kid) People were just FLYING all over the place! It was the scariest thing I've ever experienced! (Josh as News Man) Oh wow. Uh, that-that does sound horrifying! (Jordan as BHK) I'll never get those images out of my mind! (Josh as News Man) Oh I'm sorry, I'm going to have to cut you off because I can't believe, all these things are happening during my hour! What luck! An ALIEN ATTACK, In the state of Utah! We're hearing reports, that the entire state has been destroyed! Millions are DEAD! Wow! W-We'll have more details after the commercial break! We're charging more for those commercials now, right? Look. It would be great if you could just, control all the bad things, in the world and-and stop them from happening. But you can't. It's impossible. That's why it is so important that you make good and kind decisions with the one thing you can control. Yourself. Because, no. You-you don't have much of a say about what happens in a world with billions, and billions of people in it. You're just a, a small little speck A little grainuel. (granual? I dunno) Bye. But you do get the only say in how you react to situations around you. And in a world as terrible and scary as ours currently is, isn't the idea of people expounding with love, and kindness, instead of fear and hatred, Doesn't that sound pretty nice? So, maybe you can't change the world, But, if-if you can change yourself, The world will be a better, place to live. And that my friends, Is some good news for a change. *THE END* 