Wow wow wow.. This kind of a short clip again You know, at that time Hello, this is MAMAMOO Solar
in Look Me Up Okay, from now I'll search my name on SNS (namuwiki) (Solar) I'll see the results Kim Yong-sun Gangseo-gu, Seoul, oh 163cm, 45kg, B-type In fact, I'm 160.5cm tall Donghyun Elementary School, oh Myungduk Girls' Middle School, oh Seoul Finance High School
oh, how did they know it? I've never mentioned anything about
my academic background though Nicknames are Sol-bugi, Yong-ttoni,
Aying-Q, ahh It's the small letter q,
small letter q 'Pow', what is this? Wow Wow Wow I really got goosebumps Only few people know about this, you know? Wheein, Hyejin and me It's Po Pow Pay,
and I'm Pow I've been always imitating this, you know Po Pow Pay, one two step Like this Wow wow wow.. This kind of a short clip again She performed 'Sexyback' at the
first main concert of MAMAMOO she was so-called Yong-xyback Ah, how could they even know
this kind of thing The review said that she could knock down
everyone with her pelvis if she wants to Ah, what you mean by
'knock down everyone if she wants to' She swallows food without chewing Oops really, why do I not chew it? Oops oops oops oops I tend to eat food a little fast,
since I'm impatient Ah, this one is Someone suddenly brought Diget to me and asked me "does this go in
your mouth by any chance?" I also didn't know it'd
fit precisely like that Solar has a double ego called
'Yong-sun hae' Uh, what is it? Is there 'Yong-sun hae'? Oh, what is it? Why is Yong-sun hae here Moonbyul proceeded a session called
Famous Byul Cafe on V-app, Could you say hello to me? (breathing hard) Is this Moonbyul? This breathing sound is
that of Yongsun Who is this You said you'll come here to kiss me If you come here.. I'll pop your cheek if you come I said 'hello, this is Sun hae,
Sun hae' in my own way I said it like that but she knew that it was me right away That time was so funny though Her fans are maybe resembling the singer,
they're so full of maniac spirit Basically, the fandom has an
overwhelming maniac spirit MOOMOOs are really maniacs I heard that if people like each other,
they resemble each other as well They gave us such a good energy as well and we're stimulated to do
something in an interesting way (Youtube) Oh, there are now 1.93 million subscribers oh yeah (as a fan of Justin Bieber, she tried dancing 'Yummy'
yummy dance choreo) Wow, the view count is 4206991 now, wow Guys, if you watch it nine more times,
it becomes 4207000 Oh yeah,
there are many English comments Yongsun Unnie I found these foreign fans writing
'unnie' really cute Oh, there are English comments here as well Oh yes Oh yeah Okay Congratulations, you just found a Korean Great! Why do I get pleased for this.. I'm deeply moved indeed (theqoo.net) (the reason for Solar's shaved head made
a record of 1st place in real-time search) Solar's shaved head
Solar Did she really shave her head?
Her head shape looks really pretty Oh yeah I wanted to say this for sure In fact, my head shape looks really pretty It's strange for me to say it myself but Since I got bulged head
on front and back It's like a pretty-shaped egg Squid and Peanuts ball Aigo,
it looks similar 1.91m Youtuber writing silly lines on
comments of MAMAMOO Solar solo debut teaser It's now 1.93 million Wow.. it's crazy blah blah blah How strange her look is
compared to a cool teaser lol I got so excited, you know I couldn't stop myself from posting it Ah geez, I like Solar's teaser so much Ah, such comment was posted I didn't write this one myself I just read those comments written here 'Unknown Otaku' said 'Otaku strongly recommend' 'Solar's 2 individual performances' I was almost dying at that time, really Since I decided to make six packs, really In fact, at that time,
I even pulled out my hair Since I got too excited at that time After finishing this stage,
I started the next one I found that there was a bunch of long hair
lying on the floor like this, you know so I thought 'someone must have lost hair,
what should we do' but it was mine Solar is really this figure.. It's not to that extent though MAMAMOO Solar has released
a self-cam of a red sea-bream A feeling of strange video quietly flowing
in the middle of the gallery (instiz) I've never seen anyone who's more sincere
with Blood Sweat and Tears than Solar (fully opening herself up) (Yongsun fully opened herself up
for Blood Sweat and Tears lol) Wow, I really performed
Blood Sweat and Tears many times Is MAMAMOO Solar a feminist? On Youtube, I watched her explaining
women's circumcision, she was cool We don't know that, I guess she uploaded
the video because it was on Women's Day Where can I watch it?
I want to watch it as well I uploaded this video on 'Solasido' on Women's Circumcision Prohibiting Day, that I wanted to teach everyone
since I didn't know that day myself Since many people show their interests I'm so pleased and satisfied (NAVER's representative fan cafe THE MOON) I sell MAMAMOO Solar birthday waist bag I heard that such post was made on
an app for selling and buying goods I saw the post, but it's so shocking She made it for MOOMOO
as commemoration of her birthday how could it be used simply for making money,
I don't know what's wrong with people? Someone uploaded this on an app for buying and selling goods, you know Since this behavior could hurt other people I got to post it thinking that they should
refrain themselves from doing this (Melon) Wow, I'm seeing this
after a really long time I guess MAMAMOO will succeed for sure I came here on a pilgrimage..
please make me class president of 1st grade Please allow me to get into 10th places
of the entire school for exam Everything will be realized
if posted up here? I believe Solar's solo album
will make a great hit Our MAMAMOO's first album She was quite fresh at that time.. (she's still fresh even now) She's still fresh even now That's right,
I'm still fresh even now Wow.. it's been already 5 years after
this song was released? Really? It's been 5 years? Wow.. I've listened to this
quite well in grade 6 Since 5 years had passed.. this person must be grade 11 by now, yes From this time, that MAMAMOO started
to show its tremendous growing speed MOOMOODAA_4.23 Solar comeback Right I'll give you a heart Ah, Melting I wish they'd try the concept
of this time one more time TTT Our sisters are fresh and cute even now TTT Ah.. we looked fresh
until that time Now, we have a bit of matured fresh look? (Purple-MAMAMOO) Even now, I guess this song is
most suitable for MAMAMOO.. I guess it's the song which
reveals MAMAMOO's color well When many people think of 'MAMAMOO',
they think of the look somehow bright, fresh, and fun and maybe the look which
makes them feel good? I guess the song called
'Yes I am' in this album has the exact feeling of that Congratulations to 1000 days
for Yes I am Congratulations for 2nd anniversary,
Yes I am 'Yes I am' is almost like a
living creature, 'Yes I am' Solar's pink hair at that time
was so pretty I think the same way It started from this time that my hair turned into dog fur Hello, this is Ones
a TWICE fan I feel so victimized that
I can't fall asleep these days How could she be Hwasa Isn't she Momo, as anyone could see? What is it? It's not a composite picture,
but a real one? Please ignore this person This person is a fan cosplay,
please ignore Wow, this person Wait a sec, this person Press dislike first Please refrain yourself from
doing this kind of behavior I request you reality in BLACK,
this one is We really put everything in it I guess you could see somehow our matured and developed look
through this album The day of shooting this is also
Wheein's birthday many people are leaving comments here Since it's Wheein's birthday, I also sent her a text message
at 12 midnight, you know She's receiving congratulations
from many people like this Congratulations (DAUM) A shocking transformation of
Solar's 'shaved head'.. 'an exclusive presence'
before her solo advance I'm planning to visit you guys
with the title song 'Spit it out' of my first solo album 'Spit it out' I've tried various attempts to express myself a lot through this album I think that it just has everything
about me now I'd like many people to like it as well MAMAMOO is always the best Let's all be happy and healthy I love you 