- [Coyote] I'm gonna get
to go inside the enclosure with the dingoes themselves. - [Mark] You nervous at all? - Watch your back,
Mark, here they come. (intense music) (growling) There are over 375
species of mammals that call Australia home,
and almost all of them are completely unique
to this continent. From hopping kangaroos
and cuddly koalas, to sleepy wombats and the
adorable brushtail possum, we have the chance
to get up close with some of the country's
most iconic species. However, these animals
are primarily herbivores, which means that
they eat plants. So what about the
carnivorous mammals? You know, the ones who eat meat. Well, as it turns out,
there are many carnivores, and my goal is to get up close with one of the country's
top mammalian predators, and the best way to
do that is to work with a pack of them at
the Billabong Sanctuary. Get ready, it's time
to find out whether or not a coyote will be
accepted into the dingo pack. A lot of people have
requested we do an episode with the dingo, and sure enough, we're being given
the opportunity today at the Billabong
Wildlife Sanctuary. And I'm gonna get to
go inside the enclosure with the dingoes themselves. This is gonna be awesome. - [Mark] You nervous at all? - No, they told me that dingoes
are incredibly friendly, very intelligent canines. We're ready for me to go in? - We are indeed. - Okay, anything
that I need to know before I get into the enclosure? - Not with these guys.
- No? - They're pretty tame. (laughs) - Okay, pretty friendly
just like palling around with some puppy dogs. Now, you said to go
in through this gate. - [Guide] Go in
through the gate. - [Coyote] And don't
touch the fence, right? - [Guide] That's right. - [Coyote] Hi, guys. - [Guide] Nice and
sweet they are. - The moment of truth,
opening up the gate to see if I can become
one of the pack. Here we go. Oh, boy, hi! I'm coming in. Oh, this is amazing. Look at you guys. All right, so far, so good. Okay, all right, hi. How are you? How are you? Hello, there. Oh, welcoming kisses. How about that? - I'd say you're in.
- I am in. All right, I'm gonna
take off my pack here and just sort of sit
it down on this log. And I think what's probably best is if I just sit
here on the rock and see if the dingoes
will come to me. Come here, guys. Come here, hey, come here. Look at you. So, what's this one's name? - King
- King? Hi, King, how are you? You know, I've got some
kangaroo meat right here. Would you like
some kangaroo meat? Oh King, look at this. Look, bud. This is my offering,
kangaroo meat. Boy, that's good, isn't it? Now, I would try this
kangaroo meat, but it's raw, and I don't think that's gonna
make my stomach feel good. Okay, let's see, here we go. Yeah, you are so gentle. Look at how he just carefully
takes that out of my hand. There you go. Okay, that's good, huh? - [Crew Member] Now this
is a very classic dingo. - Oh yeah, look at that
kind of goldish coloration to the coat and slender
design of the body. Look at those big paws too. What's this one's name? - Alira.
- Alira. Hi, Alira, how are you? So we've got Alira and King. You look like you're king
of the rock over there, huh? Kind of gotta let
them get used to us being in the enclosure and
get used to the cameras. I'm gonna sit down
right here, King. Is that cool, hi. Lira, how are you doing? And what's the third one's name? - Kalari. - Kalari, and she's
just laying down in the sun over there, huh? They kind of look like
Shiba Inus, don't they? How ya doing? So noble up there
on top of that rock. There he goes, cool. You guys sniffing my pack? Sniffing the pack? Hi, how are you doing? - What's their coat feel like?
- Incredibly soft. You can feel on top there are
these coarser guard hairs, but they're a lot softer
than a wolf or a coyote. All this fur right
here is really bushy. Go ahead Mark, put
your hand out there and feel how soft her coat is. - [Mark] Oh, wow. So gentle, right? Your teeth look really clean. This is a good thing. It's amazing how calm
and peaceful they are. Yeah, just having a
good hangout, huh? - [Mark] So you didn't
expect this, did you? - Did not expect to be in an
enclosure with a dingo today. No, I certainly did not. It's a good thing I'm
not allergic to dogs 'cause I'm getting fur
and dander all over me. And they seem to be
completely unfazed by us having the
cameras in here, and I think they're
pretty well acclimated to us at this point. I honestly thought it
would take a couple minutes for them to kind of, oh, and now as I say that,
they kind of run off. I think we've lost
their attention. King, come here. Come here, buddy. Look, he has like
white socks on. Okay, let's see. Got some kangaroo
meat here for you. Good, lean meat, huh? There you go. There you go. King, I got a little bit more. Ew, kangaroo meat smells funky. But they absolutely love it. And of course,
kangaroo and wallaby would certainly be on the
menu for these animals, since to take down the
size of a kangaroo, the dingo would actually
need to be hunting in a pack. Now, this is the
apex land mammalian predator here in Australia. I mean, just right now, it's interesting the way they
walk looks just like wolves. All right, let's see
if we can really get into the situation
with the dingoes. Hi, you guys wanna play? Do you wanna play? Who wants to play? Come here, hi, okay. Okay. We're gonna go right here,
get down on the ground. See if we can get
you guys in here. There we go. Oh, like a big lap dog, huh? All right, now get
in the shade here. Hi, oh, look at those paws. Look at those paws. Oh, belly rub time, huh? Oh, there we go. I'm gonna lay down right
there with you, okay. Let's see, look
at those big ears. You see those ears? For incredible sense of hearing, and they do a lot of
their hunting at night when it's cooler
out, and of course, they have amazing eyesight
for hunting in the dark. It was close. Close to getting her to
be right here with me. Now she's behind you
on that side, Mark. - Hey, hello. - Hi, come here. Working on it. You guys wanna see if we can
get a dingo to climb a tree? That would be cool. Now, in the United States, I know that coyotes
have been seen occasionally climbing trees. But certainly something
like a gray fox is capable of getting
up into a tree. But something like a dingo, which as large as
this animal is, you would think wow,
how are they actually gonna get up into that tree? Wow, look at that. Look at that balance. Good job, King. - (laughs) He's
gonna try and cheat. - [Coyote] Right there bud. Can you get up there? - [Guide] He usually
cheats like that. - Whoa.
(Guide laughs) Let's see if I can put a
piece of meat up in the trees. Watch this. Move up. There it is. Wow, look at the way
that he's able to just spread his claws out
almost like a cat. Look at that agile jump, just kind of can
completely turn his body to land right in that spot. That was awesome. All right, well,
dingoes can climb trees. Okay guys, so we're
gonna try to switch up the tactic a little bit. I was kind of coming into
the enclosure being quiet, letting the dingoes
get acclimated to me, and they seem pretty
comfortable at this point. So we're gonna try to up
the excitement a little bit, and I'm actually gonna start
running in the other direction and see if I can get
them to chase me. Ready for that?
- Sure. - All right, let's
see what happens. Come on, buddy, come on. (exciting drum music) Here we go. Now they're moving. Just gotta get 'em
fired up a little bit. All right, playing
tag with the dingoes. Now, I've got them excited, and they're playing
with each other, but I need them to
actually chase me. As soon as I started
running that way, King took off after me and then the other two
sprinted right after. Watch your back,
Mark, here they come. Hi! - [Crew] Whoa. - It's like a flash. There you go, Candy, whoa! - Hi, Candy, come here. (playful music) Whew, I can't keep up with them. They're so fast. I can make like halfway down, and then they both pass
me in the other direction. King is definitely leading
the charge right now. Whew, it's getting
dusty in here. Might be getting on
your lens a little bit. But they are definitely
getting excited. So coming into the enclosure,
getting acclimated, and then getting 'em to play definitely was the right tactic. (growls and barks) Come here, you. Come here. Ooh, probably don't wanna get
in the middle of that though. I don't have real thick
flesh on the side of my neck. - [Crew Member] Get
down a little bit. - Okay, good boy,
Duke, come here. All right, let's take 'em
over to the water trough here. Check this out. You guys, getting a drink? Getting a drink. Ah, that was a good run, huh? I can see what King
is doing right now is just kind of
laying in the shade, and the ground is rather cool. Now, when it's really hot out, dingoes will just sort of
nestle down in the shade, and they'll dig these little
kind of circular burrows that they can then curl up in. And as they get a little
deeper into the soil, the ground is a little cooler. It helps them regulate
their body temperature. Let's get this chance now while King is sort of
laying down like this to look at the body
structure of the dingo. Look at how lean this animal is. And it's definitely a
hunter, that's for sure. Long legs, big
paws, sharp claws, and look at this narrow
sort of waistline. You can see all this muscle
in the back haunches there, obviously give them the
ability to leap pretty high into the air,
straight up vertical. King can probably jump about
five to six feet straight up. Let's take a look
at King's paws. Look at those pads there. The paws aren't quite as
big as the paws of a wolf. Now obviously because they
aren't out there in the snow, their paws don't need
to spread quite as far. But when we saw King
climbing up the trees, he was able to grip on with
his claws almost like a cat. And see this space right here? This is where their
paws are capable of curling under and
holding onto things, whether it's a tree limb, or if they're hunting and
they leap onto their prey, they can grabble onto it and
then inflict a death bite. - [Crew Member] They don't
rest for that long, do they? - No, King said okay, if
you're gonna play with my paws, I'm heading this way. Let's follow him over there. - [Crew Member] There you go. - There we go. Is that the spot right there? Now just like a
dog, you gotta find that right spot
for a good scratch. Yeah, there we go. All right. Well, this was pretty awesome. Hanging out in the
dingo enclosure, getting acclimated,
eating some kangaroo meat, having a run, and now it's time
to just relax in the shade. I'm Coyote Peterson. Be brave, stay wild. We'll see you on
the next adventure. I learned a lot as I attempted
to become one of King's pack, and despite the fact that
they are effective predators, these wild Australian canines,
just like a family dog, are always ready to play on. (barks) Come here,
you, come here. Hey Coyote pack, I have
some exciting news. I'm proud to announce
that the crew and I will be back on tour in 2018
with Brave Wilderness Live, visiting cities all
across North America. Our first shows are in Anaheim
and San Diego, California. From there, we head
to Phoenix, Arizona. Beyond that, we will be visiting
San Francisco, California, Portland, Oregon,
Seattle, Washington, and Boulder, Colorado, with many more shows to be
announced in the coming months. Tickets can be purchased at
the Brave Wilderness website, so make sure to reserve
your seats today. And don't forget, subscribe
so you can join me and the crew on this
season of Breaking Trail. I'm Coyote Peterson, be brave, - [Audience] Stay wild! 