This episode is sponsored by brilliant.
From ripples in the sand to the stripes on a zebra, all the way down to the
sodium and chlorine atoms in a crystal of salt, repeating patterns in nature
remind us how even the most chaotic systems can produce their own form of
order. While the patterns we see around us are cool to look at, things become
very interesting when we go down to the atomic level. The combination of these
patterns and quantum mechanical effects give rise to the beautiful colors we see
in butterfly wings, peacock feathers, and the way a chameleon changes color when
it's... excited. In this video we're going to see the exact quantum physics
involved, and how our chameleon Bernard here uses it to his advantage to find
love. Or at least to woo a girl chameleon. To understand this we first
have to understand this salt crystal. If we zoom into the atomic level we see a
very neat and periodic arrangement of atoms with electrons orbiting around
them. This structure is called a crystal lattice because it's common to all
crystals. Now the key idea is that these electrons can't have just any energy
level. Okay guys things are about to get real. This is the infamous Schrodinger
wave equation and it's kind of the holy grail of quantum physics. I did a whole
video about it, but quickly this equation tells us everything we can possibly know
about a quantum particle, like an electron. Now this funny-looking
pitchfork here is the Greek letter psi and it stands for what's called the wave
function of the electron. See electrons are a bit elusive in that you can't
pinpoint exactly where they are like regular objects, you can only predict
where they might be with more or less probability. This probability is modeled
by a wave, hence the name wave function. Now the thing is only certain
wavelengths can exist in a confined space.
If you imagine a string on a guitar only certain wavelengths are allowed because
the ends need to be attached to the guitar. For example this wavelength is
fine but this one doesn't work. This one is fine, this one, nope. That's why two
strings of different lengths can't produce the same sounds. It's the same
thing going on with our electrons in the crystal lattice.
Only certain wave functions are allowed while others are banished because of the
fixed lengths within the lattice. The energy of an electron is intrinsically
linked to its wave function, so if only certain wave function values are allowed
only certain energy levels are allowed, and indeed when we solve the Schrodinger
equation that's exactly what we get. This equation gives us the energy levels
allowed for an electron. Notice how all the terms are constant values except one.
h-bar is Planck's constant on 2 pi, M is the mass of the electron which doesn't
change, L is the length of the lattice spacing which doesn't change, and pi is a
constant. n is the only value that changes and needs to go up in whole
numbers, therefore if n can only increase in whole numbers and the rest of the
values are fixed the energy levels must also increase in discrete chunks. But
what's the point of all this math if it doesn't result in a happy chameleon?
These calculations apply to just one particle but things get pretty
interesting when we have a party of particles. The periodic structure of the
crystal lattice means the atoms are really close together so the electrons
are all whizzing around and interacting and their energy levels start
overlapping, forming into kind of energy bands. These energy bands and the gaps
between them decide which electron energies are and are not allowed inside
the crystal. Now let's imagine everything blown up one or two hundred times.
Instead of atoms say we have some periodic structure and instead of
electrons we have particles of light, photons. It turns out that similar band
structures appear when we have microscopic patterns which have a period
in the range of the wavelength of visible light. These are called photonic
crystals because of their similarity to regular crystals. This structure leads to
the formation of optical bands just like electronic bands which allow some
wavelengths of light to pass and others to get reflected. This makes objects
appear a certain color and different structures allow for different colors.
Now you might be wondering how is this different from regular colors? How is it
gonna help our boy Bernard here impress his date? The big difference is that with
photonic crystals the color is dependent on the structure of the material, while
the regular colors that we see around us are dependent on the chemical
composition of the material. Take leaves for example. Leaves look green because
the electrons in the shaded region of the chlorophyll molecule get excited
when light hits them and due to their chemical bonding
they absorb blue and red light and reflect green. Fun fact: if you ever want
to grow plants inside and use indoor lighting try using a purple light. Purple
is a mixture of blue and red which the plants need to grow. Shining green light
on leaves does little to their growth because it's reflected and wastes energy
so purple light is energy efficient for plant growth. So that's how color usually
works but in photonic crystals the color comes from the interaction of light with
the physical structure of the material, not the chemical bonds. Take for example
this CD. Now I don't know if this is considered vintage these days but it's
basically something that plays music. Notice the beautiful colors that we have.
The multicolored pattern isn't caused by a colorful coating, it happens because of
the underlying pattern or tracks where the data is written. The track spacing is
comparable to the wavelength of visible light and so different wavelengths of
different light diffract at different angles giving multicolor patterns. Chameleons, butterfly wings and peacock
feathers all have photonic crystals in them, and these microscopic interactions
manifest themselves in a pretty cool way at the macroscopic level. For one thing
the color can be tuned. Chameleons change their body color by adjusting the
crystal patterns to indicate when they're excited. By stretching or
compressing the lattice they can change the color of light which is reflected,
going from a dull camouflage to a vibrant hue, and what girl wouldn't be
impressed by that! Another cool thing is that photonic crystals reflect different
colors depending on the angle you look at them. This is why you see those cars
that go from green to purple as you walk by them. They have special paint with
photonic crystals. Today lots of research is being done to mimic the bio photonic
crystals found in nature for a range of applications from camouflaging and even
optical communication. In fact one of the main technologies of solar energy, solar
panels, use the same physics of structural color we find in Bernard and
peacocks. By engineering the thickness of okay bye 