Welcome to the most important video you will
ever watch because you have been lied to. You’ve been lied to by your parents, your
friends, your teachers, your government—this web of lies goes so deep that even the president
of Finland is involved. You don’t have five senses, or, well, you
do, but you just have more than five senses. The idea that sight, sound, smell, taste,
and touch are the only five ways that humans perceive the world is a massive oversimplification…
sort’ve like every single one of these videos. Let’s try an example. Close your eyes, take one of your arms, shake
it around, then try to touch your nose. Assuming you were successful, what you’ve
just done, aside from looking massively stupid if you’re in public, is proven that you
don’t have just five senses because you weren’t seeing your hand, you weren’t
hearing it, weren’t smelling it, weren’t feeling it, and hopefully weren’t tasting
it, but you were able to know where your arm was because you have another sense which is
known as proprioception. This is how you know where your limbs are
and how you don’t trip over yourself all the time even though you’re not looking
at your feet. This sense works thanks to a network of special
nerves in your joints and on your muscles known as proprioreceptors that tell your brain
where your body is. Now, I’m sure none of you faultless Half
as Interesting viewers have ever been pulled over by police, but if you hypothetically
were, you might have been asked to close your eyes and touch your nose as a test of your
proprioceptive ability. This is because alcohol consumption impairs
this sense so it’s a good basic field sobriety test. The proprioceptive sense, or rather the lack
of it, is also to thank for videos like this and this. Kids and teens tend to have lower proprioceptive
abilities since their bodies are growing and it takes time for the brain to adapt to the
changing shape of the body. This helps explain, once and for all, why
kids just act like drunk adults. The proprioceptive sense is quite cool because
you might not have even realized you had it, but there are other senses that you might
not have even realized are senses. For example, thermoception, which is not Inception’s
very hot sequel, it’s our sense of temperature. To demonstrate, take a ballpoint pen in one
hand, make a fist with the other then gently touch the skin between your knuckles. Keep touching different spots between the
knuckles and you should notice that for some areas it will feel like the pen-tip is warm
while for others it will feel cold. Feel free to pause while you test this, but
assuming you were successful, you’ve just found the areas where your cold receptors
and and the areas where your warm receptors are since they’re not actually spread out
evenly. How our sense of temperature actually works
is that we have receptors for cold which mostly sense temperatures between 68 and 86 degrees
Fahrenheit and then we have receptors for warm which mostly sense temperatures between
86 and 104 degrees Fahrenheit. Any temperature much below or above this range
is actually sensed as pain which proves definitively that no human was meant to live in Phoenix,
Arizona. Because this range is where we actually sense
temperature differences rather than pain, this is also why you can very clearly sense
the difference between 70 and 90 degrees Fahrenheit while the difference between -20 and 0 degrees
Fahrenheit is barely noticeable. Speaking of pain, pain is actually a completely
different sense than touch triggered by a mostly separate process. Also a non-traditional sense is balance and
then there are all the senses on the inside of the body like hunger, then there are also
senses that are entirely in the brain like the perception of the passing of time, then
there is also the sense that almost every YouTube commenter lacks—the sense of humor. The model of five senses is so old that we’re
not even sure when it was first created. Considering the sense of temperature literally
dictates where most people live, maybe it’s time to update this model… but what do I
know. I’m just some YouTuber. 