Jihyo! Further away, please Jihyo! Mina! Excuse me. Coming through! Sana! I'm happy that we can meet
our fans, ONCE, globally. It was my first time
going to some of the countries. So I was nervous and excited. I usually feel exhausted. But while I get my hair and makeup done,
it becomes real and very hectic The concert is only a few hours away, and I can hear music outside. And then I can start hearing
fans and the audience coming in. That's when it gets hectic. "I'm so nervous!
What if I do it incorrectly?" It's over when the word
"nervous" pops in your mind. I could hear my heart beating
even with my earpieces on. Tzuyu! Jihyo! Good luck! With my earpieces on, I can't hear anything very well,
except the song playing. Because I am sweating,
I also have to change my clothes. I have to get my hair done again
and fix my lipstick. That's only possible because of help
from the other crew members. Let's go! It's opening! Each country has so many
really talented singers. When I believed our artists had something
that was missing in that market, I was able to aggressively enter
new markets. I think I can do better. I want to do better
than this performance in the future. When I hear a crowd cheer for an encore, I think, "I should remember this moment." Even when I grow old
and become a grandmother, I should remember this moment. Thank you. Go for it, TWICE! I'm literally shocked. You can hear what's happening
in the concert hall from here. And they started cheering for us
three hours before the concert. The concert tour makes me
physically exhausted. When I close my eyes at night
before falling asleep, I cannot stop thinking
about the choreography. That's why I can't sleep. I keep thinking about the next movement
in the choreography as I fall asleep. I worry a lot right before a concert. I did that? Really? I made a mistake with my foot, too. This was wrong in the beginning? This one, too. I got a sty in my eye. -Jeongyeon!
-Yeah? Tell us what happened to your eye. Well, my eye... I got a sty in my eye. Do you want to see it? -No, thank you.
-Do you want to see it? -Can I show it?
-Sure. She's often been getting a sty in her eye,
since we were trainees. She hasn't had one for a while,
and look what happened. She couldn't open her eye this morning,
but here the swelling went down. Can you see it? This is the one from today. Really... Let me show you something funny. This is Jeongyeon, and so is this. It's crazy, right?
She looks like two different people. Anyway, I feel so sorry for her today. We are about to start
the concert in Manila. And it sounds as if someone
was already performing because the fans are cheering for us. I'm so excited, and I'll do my best. I had one eye covered. I performed like that,
so I felt a bit dizzy. I couldn't see
the right visual field at all, so I had to dance intuitively. Still, I just did it. I wasn't thinking about anything. And thanks to the passion of the fans, I could make it till the end. Like I mentioned before, we could hear fans' reaction
while we were standing by. And they practiced so much
even before we went out on the stage. I was excited but also worried. But I was anxious for nothing. Nobody seemed exhausted, not for a single moment, until the end. It was so energetic. TWICE! Really... It was the best. Out of all the concerts I did in the last four years since the debut, I saw the best, loudest reactions here. It was unbelievable. I didn't expect the cheering
could be this loud, although in such a huge concert hall. Mina, she cried when she felt pressured. She cried but still did
what she had to do. She sang while crying. Good job! As you grow as an artists, there comes a time when you
suddenly wonder, "By the way, why am I doing this?" When that happens,
I can see it on their faces. Their cheerful energy disappears
and they look lost. I feel so sorry when I see that.
I wish they overcome the hardship. I had a lot of challenging moments. We were so busy,
and we didn't get much sleep. We had a crazy schedule, but we had to do it all. People expect to see us, and we have fans and families. Still, I had some challenging moments to doubt if I could keep doing this well. Hey! She doesn't like it. The concert schedule is pretty tight so that we don't have to stay overseas
for a long time. It’s possible that the food there
might not suit us and it's hard to stay overseas long. I'm so sleepy. What should I do? I can't even move. So sleepy! I'm so sleepy. Why am I so tired?
I haven't even washed up yet. Since a very young age, they've always
been required not to make any mistake, and people have high expectations
as well as criticisms. That happens all the time. And I've always thought
they were too young for that. I sometimes don't feel satisfied,
and I think I could have done better. I always feel that way
after performing on stage. There is a little regret. Please keep up the good work
at the concert tomorrow. Thank you! Thank you for the hard work! It's been four years since we debuted. Even when something unexpected
would happen, our members would support each other and rely on each other. That's how we've been doing well. What? Really, Dahyun? What happened? You look... Your face is twitching! -Did you take medication?
-What should we do? -Why?
-She said she's about to throw up. She suddenly feels nauseous. Please turn on the A/C, so that it gets cooler. Her face is twitching. She's experiencing cold sweats. What should we do? She doesn't look worried. Do you have a thermometer? We've got ten minutes
until the concert starts. Is it too hot in here? Maybe she's nervous? A bit more... I'm still feeling under the weather
because of my throat and nose, but I'm worried about what to do. Okay. I feel nauseous, and I'm not sure
if it's because I'm nervous or sick. I'll try my best on stage. We'll have fun with ONCE on stage. Go for it! Really? Isn't it the second verse? In the middle of the world tour, eight of us had to perform on the stage
instead of nine. It was a shame in a sense. Nine of us prepared for the concert. We really hoped all nine of us
could be on stage together. It felt like I'd be left alone here,
and they'd all be gone. 