Dreamcatcher playing the game before the main interview YH: This character's name is "Irene" YOOHYEON's character in this collaboration project Dreamcatcher completely into the game SY: Next player? YH: Me! SY: I can't play this game because it's too much of a thrill JI U: This is amazing... The boss map of the prologue YH: I think I'm good at this game Boss map clear! SY: Is this the end of the prologue? GH: We didn't even start the main game yet SY, JI U: I can't believe it YH, JI U: So awesome
GH: Just wow The reason we're all here today is..?! We've been selected as the model for the mobile game 'Girl Cafe Gun'! CONGRATS <3 Congrats to our members Today, as a part of the collab We're going to have a short interview with the members SU A? What game is Girl Cafe Gun? So Girl Cafe Gun is It's a mobile RPG game you can enjoy with girl characters The characters are all unique and a thrilling story is a plus So try it out for sure! Shall we now move onto the next question? (SIYEON avoiding eye contact) I'll pick the next member simply By age! SIYEON? Hello! What does Dreamcatcher have in common with this game? I tried out this game briefly before The main setting of the game is apocalypse! This sort of deep story fits well with Dreamcatcher's concept So I think it made a good collaboration Then the next oldest member, YOOHYEON will answer the next question Hope you get it well What kind of things did you do with Girl Cafe Gun? We participated in the Girl Cafe Gun title song as well as the music video! You guys watched it already, right? In case you missed it, Click on the link above and go watch it right now! Moving onto the next question DAMI! What was your favorite concept from the M/V? Well... I liked my concept the most Because... all the gold The set was filled with gold and jewels So I'd have to pick my concept Then I'll ask GAHYEON a question How does it feel to do a collaboration with Girl Cafe Gun? I personally really like gun action games So I had a blast working with Girl Cafe Gun I wish we could continue our partnership So we did a short interview about Girl Cafe Gun Was it interesting to you guys? We hope that all Girl Cafe Gun players could stay happy :) 