Hello and bonjour encore ! I’m back in Paris
and this is the door to number 1 bis, Rue Chapon. Or is it? You can knock on it and wait here for as long
as you want, but no-one is ever going to open it and let you in, and that’s not just because
they’re Parisians; it’s also because this is an art installation; the door appeared
here early one Saturday morning in 2006 on what was previously a blank wall. And that got me thinking. I wonder how many other fake doors there are
in the city, maybe even whole fake buildings, that people walk past every day without ever realising
they’re not real? I bet there are so many they won’t even
fit into this intro. We’re starting our fake building quest right
in the middle of Paris at the Pompidou Centre. The architects famously put all the normally
hidden parts of a building on the outside, from the structural supports, to electrical
equipment, to these huge white ventilation shafts. What you end up with is a normal building
on the inside that looks like some weird industrial infrastructure on the outside. And of course we’re here to see almost the
exact opposite of that. And it all starts with another ventilation
shaft in London. This is Leinster Gardens, a beautiful street
near Paddington Station, and if you hang out in the same parts of YouTube that I do, someone’s
probably already told you about the fake buildings at numbers 23 and 24, that were built to disguise
a ventilation shaft for the tube; But what you may not know, is that Paris has loads
of these. And just round the corner next to this protest
I think we might have found one. Number 29 rue Quincampoix looks real at first
but as you get closer you can see that the windows have all been painted on. Why? Well during the pedestrianisation of Paris’s
city centre in the 70s and 80s, they built a huge network of underground road tunnels
here, and the artwork was commissioned to disguise a ventilation shaft, which you can
see when you look at the satellite view on Google maps. It’s beautifully done but if we’re being
picky (which to clarify we absolutely are) it’s pretty obvious that it’s not a real
building. But a short walk away there’s another, and
this one is a lot harder to spot. Number 44 Rue d’Aboukir is a typical traditional
6-story Parisian building until you look closely at the front door. This notice tells you it belongs to the RATP,
the company that runs Paris’s public transport and sure enough it’s hiding another ventilation
shaft. This time it's for the underground railway tunnel that carries suburban RER trains between
Les Halles and the Gare du Nord. The transport company designed the façade
to blend in as much as possible with the rest of the street and you’d  have to say they did a pretty good job. Which is more than can be said for what the
electricity company did just up the road. In the 1970s Electricité de France put a
substation on Rue Bergère and it was kind of ugly and the residents complained so they
thought, ok, why don’t we do what the RATP did, and build a façade in front of it. So they did. But I feel like they didn’t quite understand
the bit about blending in. See if you can spot it. To be fair number 27 is a pretty convincing
building, the only problem is that it would have been less ugly if it was just an electrical
substation. We’ve now walked almost all the way up to
the Gare du Nord which is admittedly partly because I have to catch a train in about 15
minutes but that’s ok because as we know, trains mean ventilation shafts, and ventilation
shafts mean fake facades. And what’s coming up next is probably the
best and most famous of the lot. The house at 145 rue la Fayette was 90% demolished
in the 1980s to make way for a ventilation shaft, or an entrance to the underworld, depending on whether you listen to the RATP or Umberto Eco. I’m not going to tell you who you should
believe, but the historic façade was fully preserved, together with its classic 2nd floor
balcony, and the guardians of the underworld seem to have put scaffolding behind it for
maintenance purposes. So if you could get inside, you’d be able
to climb up and open the windows. Any attempt to actually do this would be extremely
dangerous and hugely illegal, which means, of course, there’s a YouTuber who’s done it. You can check out the link in the description below but
before you do that there’s time for one final stop just around the corner at number
174 rue du Faubourg Saint-Denis. And yes it’s yet another ventilation shaft. There are in fact at least another 5 fake
facades in Paris (that we know about), so there’s more to explore, but for today we’ll end
our tour here, because there’s only so many stupid jokes I can make about large-scale
ventilation, and to be honest, I’m not a big fan. OK WHO WROTE THAT? If you’d like to see the fake facades of
Paris (from the outside at least), you can follow my exact route using the Google Maps link in
the increasingly long description below. It takes about an hour and I recommend doing
in the reverse order if you'd rather be going downhill. Anyway thanks for watching and I’ll see
you soon. 