Dear YEOREUM~ Please give it to me! Oh hoho!! (we were happy) (before that happened) (Lum Sunwoo / snack mania) (Pikachu / cookie) You can't touch that (Ex Da Kyung / the owner of a snack)
Sigh YEOREUM, the cookie is broken What should I do? I missed it and it broke I know, I shouldn't have touched
other people's stuff Did you know everything? Are you serious? It's not a crime to fall into space(?)! What? Friendship? (world of friends) (what happened to them?) (The First Date) I think you two's closeness has increased a bit, but it's still a bit awkward, right? No, I'm not I've prepared some games for you two There are five same fruits, right? Then you can ring the bell If you hit a bell when you don't have
five, you should get hit How can I hit her~ You hit someone well,
what's wrong with you? (lol) (Halli Galli to increase intimacy, go, go) I almost made it (pop) (pop22) Honestly, you've played a lot of games Ah, yeah~ It was so close~ Yes~~ (scanning the card) (clangor) (ppyong) (gently) (shyness explosion) Oh, oh, look at her hitting her gently It's love~ What's this strange atmosphere? - It's no joke
- Here we go (clear sound) Why? Why? You're stupid~ (EXY : Sigh~) (shivering) (signal transmission) (receipt complete, OK!) (wits) Unnie (ready OK) (three, two, one) (something passed by?) (cover the bell with her whole body) Didn't she catch a mosquito? (EXY's highest reaction speed) - It's awesome!
- I thought it was a mosquito! You two are suspicious~ (secret~) Fighting! (speed game, speed game) (in a second) (hand over mouth) (professional board gamer) (YUQI, you're the best!)
(appealing Chinese) (got her favorite) What do you think? Her pronunciation is much better than you This is so weird (excited, excited) (attractive+1) (the green that gives off charm) (clangor) (ㅇ_ㅇ) (EXY gives off her charm)
YUQI, you're the best (Wook Taeoh falls in love with her) (act silly) (such an uncomfortable scene) Aren't you proud? Ah, you're so good~ - Even its atmosphere is unfamiliar
- Let's go! What, what, what, what, what (5 strawberries) That's right! (why are they all so good all of a sudden?) You guys put magnets here, right? We put the same thing on our hands That's right What on earth is this! Apply some of this 
(to me as well)!! Let's finish YEOREUM Let's go, let's go Where will you send me to? We will send you to home! (goodbye) That's right!!!, that's  right!!!
(suddenly turned into a team match) (sniffs, sniffs) I'll crush everything!
I'll crush everthing! (YEOREUM is determined that 'solo is strong') Oh, no, I'll do it from now on (mine) Take it, take it~ Maerong, maerong (peak of teasing) I don't know where to look I'm sorry, my love cools easily Do you already feel tired of me? Love can change Oh, no I'm gonna do this a little gentle
from now on I'm on the verge of bankruptcy,
what are you talking about? We don't know until it's over (let's see about that) Uh, her stuff is dying Goodbye~~ (clangor) (what's this) She has only one card! Let's go~~ (YEOREUM is looking for the last chance) (raccoon man?) (raccoon man was finished by her,
so it's safe) Goodbye~~ (Ahhhhhhhhhh) (breakup BGM for YEOREUM leaving) What's this!! YUQI vs EXY (YUQI VS EXY's
Halli Galli Flicking Competition!) You're in the last place anyway (chit) (mental victory) (respnsible for reactions) I'm sorry~ (so much fun♡) (ha~ppy) (YEOREUM is a fish out of water)
Hey, are you guys having fun? We're having so much fun, huh? That's right It'll be fun because you two are playing Do you want to eat ramen? I'm enjoying my life~ It's been a while since I was happy~ I'm gonna go home Should I play an accordion? (pitiful) Um, goodbye~
unnie, goodbye~ It's done! (the final match of Halli Galli
was finished with victory by YUQI!) (something sad applause) (COME~) (whispering) (!!?) (go, go~) Um~ unnie, wasn't it fun? Yes, it was so much fun Get away from us! (!!!) (lol) (do I really go?) At this point, you should be aware of it I'm afraid you're tired Please go~~ I'm gonna go~~ - Will you really go?
- I'm really going, should I not go? No, go home You're tired, you're tired I'm not tired! I won't go far~ (speechless) You'll be living in our hearts forever Why do I live in your heart! You should leave the toy hammer behind Eat well and live well! (throwing a toy hammer out of anger) (acting chummy)
You want me to go?? No, wait up front (heung chit poong) Why should I wait
for you, you two are enough! Today is going to be our first day! What? Friendship? (already laughing) (lol) It's not a crime to fall into friendship! (I can't stand it anymore) What's that~~ (so funny) 