“She means more
to me than anyone.” “Any cat you mean?”
“And person.” The Office’s Angela Martin
is the ultimate Cat Lady. A shadowy, mysterious figure
in our society, the catwoman has three primary forms
in popular culture: the woman-as-cat, “Women who, in jealousy or anger
or out of their own corrupt passions, can change into great cats,
like panthers.” the cat-like woman,
“Meow.” and the crazy cat lady. “But can anyone who loves animals
that much really be crazy?” [Screaming]
[Meowing] Angela embodies all three. With her prickly, stand-offish
demeanour and aura of mystery, Dunder Mifflin’s head of accounting
has the personality of a cat inside a human body. “Is she cleaning the cat
with her tongue?” Like a catwoman, she exhibits
a strange animal magnetism that entrances the men around her. “A duel! The winner gets Angela!”
“Fine!” “Fine!” And on the crazy-cat-lady front,
her cats aren’t just her best friends. “She was my best friend.” They’re family. “I mean, I usually try to
take leave when I get a new cat, but I’m out of vacation days, and this company still doesn’t
recognize cat maternity.” Angela is a portrait of
what it means to be a “cat person” -- not just to like cats, but to really
be one in your soul. “Just a couple’a kittens...
out on the town.” Her behavior becomes
easier to understand when you use cat psychology
to decode her motivations. “Did Roy ever kill one of your cats?” So here’s our take on how
Angela offers a guide on how to deal with
the cat person in your life or -- if you're that cat person --
how to better understand yourself. [Meowing]
[Hissing] So click the link in the description
below to sign up now! First, let’s pinpoint what it is
that makes a cat person. To do that, we have to go back
to basics and identify what makes a cat. [Coughing] “Also, I’m pretty sure
she coughed up a hairball.” H.P. Lovecraft once wrote,
“The cat is such a perfect symbol of beauty and superiority that
it seems scarcely possible for any true aesthete ...
to do other than worship it." “Her hair looks beautiful.”
“Yeah, we get it, Phyllis. She looks like a
freakin’ movie star!” As a cat-person, Angela exemplifies this mix of elegance
and smug self-satisfaction. “I actually look forward
to performance reviews. I really enjoy being judged. I believe I hold up very well
to even severe scrutiny.” The animal’s innate air
of superiority may explain why the Ancient Egyptians
revered their cats, and depicted some of their gods
with cat heads and features. Cats are always convinced
they are in charge... and maybe they are. “Still want to take over the world?”
“Yes. Wait. No! I meant no!” Exceptional intelligence is a well-known
cat trait evidenced in cat people, too. “My girlfriend is also
beautiful and smart. She could be a model
or a college professor, which is intimidating
to a lot of guys.” As Head of Accounting,
Angela clearly knows her stuff, and nothing gets past her.
Her smarts can also be expressed in a more Machiavellian
instinct for manipulation. “I'm taking his job.” “Not now.” Cats are notorious
for being fiercely independent. “Freedom is power.
To live a life untamed and unafraid.” Angela epitomizes the cat’s autonomy. “But don’t expect any cookie.” “But what if I’m hungry?”
“No cookie.” There’s a historical reason for this. Cats have been our
domestic companions for up to 12,000 years,
but for a long time, they lived alongside humans,
not with them. After humans started farming,
cats made themselves useful by killing rodents (and toned down
their more aggressive behaviors), as a kind of business arrangement,
so humans didn’t chase them away. But domestication
researchers have found that there’s still not a
major genetic difference between wild cats
and domestic ones. So you might say cats are still
(to a large degree) wild at heart, and we can observe this
wild-animal energy in Angela... [Screaming] She presents as pious and prim, “Sometimes the clothes
at Gap Kids are just too flashy, so I’m forced to go to
the American Girl Store, and order clothes for
large colonial dolls.” but scratch the surface,
and she is neither of those things. “Where'd you get that kind of money?”
“I sold Andy's engagement ring on eBay.” “Wait, you didn’t give it back?”
“He wouldn’t have wanted that.” So you might read her buttoned-up
performance of religious virtue as an elaborate tactic
to hide her animal nature “You are an accountant,
not a lingerie model.” The most remarkable thing
about their history is that cats domesticated themselves, choosing to come
into the homes of humans. Perhaps that’s why they’re
deemed hard to win over -- cats will only form attachments
when it’s their decision, on their terms. Likewise, Angela’s relationships
have to move at her pace. “I know she loves me, Phyllis.
I am sure of it. She practically told me so.” “I have seen Angela naked zero times.” What’s more, a 2015 study showed
that cats do not need their owners. “I’m like Cat here. We’re
a couple of no-name slobs. We belong to nobody,
and nobody belongs to us. We don’t even belong to each other.” According to Celia Haddon,
the author of “How to Read Your Cat’s Mind,” “Cats won’t live in an unhappy home,
they’ll just walk out … so they are not going
to depend on their owners ... But it doesn’t mean that they don’t
want to be around their owners. This shows that they really do.” Angela will leave if she’s unhappy. “I can’t be with you… every time I look in your eyes,
I see Sprinkles’ stiff, lifeless body.” She isn’t willing to compromise on
anything -- even if true love is at risk. But this means that when
she does at last come around, she’s with Dwight because
she fully wants to be -- without any doubts or
festering hidden resentments. This cat psychology also explains
why Angela lies to Dwight that he’s not Philip’s father.
She needs her relationships to be based on both parties
truly wanting to be there: “I just needed you to want to marry me
because you wanted to marry me.” The cat person is deeply private
and equally proud. “Everyone will know our business.”
“That’s not the worst thing in the world.” a combination that can be
hard on the people they love. “It won’t be that bad.
Look at Kelly and Ryan.” “I hate those two people
more than anything in the entire world.” This mix of qualities also makes it very easy
to misunderstand a cat person. Angela doesn’t encourage people
to see her point of view. “You think I want people remembering
I had sensual relations with Andy? It’s the kind of thing you wish
you could have annulled. I want to throw up
just thinking about it.” “Office” viewers, too, are likely
to read Angela as mean or heartless in situations where -- if we look closer --
she’s hiding a lot of pain. “Oh, and here are four idiots
who will do nothing but weigh you down. Oh, and your cat’s still dead.” Cats are a longtime symbol
of femininity, as we can see in the trope of
the hypersexualized catwoman. “You poor guys. Always confusing
your pistols with your privates.” Cats -- and cat people -- are aware of
the power in their feline attractiveness. “What a purrrrrrfect idea.” Angela uses her beguiling sexuality
to her advantage. “Angela, you had two sets of
different men actually duel over you?” “I guess I have.” She even plays with her prey, dangling her relationship
with Andy in front of Dwight. “You may ask me out to dinner.” The close link with the feminine
has led to misogynistic vilification of cats. “Shut up, you feline floozy!” Cats have been used
as a symbol of otherness. They can represent that loneliness
of feeling like you don’t belong. “I’ve stayed away from people …
I -- I lived alone.” The cat person has a
compelling aura of mystery. The cat has often been perceived
as a familiar spirit to witches. “Such a pretty kitty.” And in numerous horror stories,
cats can symbolize the conscience, reminding characters
of bad things they’ve done -- just as Angela is more than happy
to visit judgment on her coworkers for their sins, real and
(more often) imagined. “I am not like you! Walking around
in your provocative outfits, saying whatever thought
pops in your head!” There is a duality present
in cats -- and Angela -- that can feel contradictory. They can be saccharine yet sinister,
as cute as they are cold. “In the Martin family, we like to say, ‘Looks like someone took
the slow train from Philly.’ That's code for ‘Check out the slut.’” And the cat person has a dark side. “Okay, so everything you need to know
about the target is in here.” “So what’s the job?”
“Murder.” They’re merciless when they perceive
they’re dealing with a weaker animal. “I thought you said green was whorish.”
“No, orange is whorish.” Angela enjoys the power trip
of leading the Party Planning Committee and uses it to assert dominance
over lesser beings. “A Christmas drinking game…”
“Yes.” “God help you.” “What?” “These are all terrible ideas.” Undeniably arrogant, the cat-person
has trouble admitting they’re wrong. “And I’ve already told you
the official position of Dunder Mifflin is apologetic, so I don't know
what you want from me.” They don’t suffer fools,
or ridiculous opinions. “I’m... more of a dog person.”
[Scoffs] The smaller, more quirky clichés
about cats are also true of cat people. Just as the animal is famously curious, “Curiosity killed the cat, you know.” Angela’s not above sticking her whiskers
in other people’s business… “Pam IS the office mattress.” She’s full of catty insults. “Spoons have rounded tops
and are used to scoop things.” But despite these flaws,
the cat person’s reputation for true villainy is
generally unfounded. “Certain events have transpired,
and I’ve thought about certain things, and I’m sorry for the way
those certain events transpired.” The first step toward getting along
with a cat person is: Don’t take their behavior personally. Because cats were domesticated
relatively recently compared to, say, dogs, cat behavior expert Tom McNamee says
we must treat them like wild animals. To demonstrate respect
for their sovereignty, asking to approach cats is
the best way to go. Don’t assume that social rules
that work for most people will fly with the cat person. “So I googled how to deal
with difficult people.” “So, how do you feel about
the fact that the banner says ‘Lunch’?” “I feel angry. Angry at you. Angry at you
for doing something stupid.” It can seem as though
no matter what you do, you can’t please a cat.
And it’s the same with the cat person. “Since my little lady has such particular,
impossible to perceive taste, I have made nonrefundable deposits
at four totally different wedding locales.” They know what they like --
but unless you know them very well, what they like can be difficult to gauge. “Dangerous. Tacky. Sharks. Haunted.” Although they often appear aloof,
cats and cat people thrive on affection. It’s just that they save their fun,
playful side for a select inner circle: “I do play games. I sing,
and I dangle things in front of my cats. I play lots of games. Just not at work.” Having to earn the cat’s trust is
a huge part of what makes a relationship
with them appealing. “A dog is very easy to break, but cats
make you work for their affection. They don’t sell out the way dogs do.” Once the cat person person
warms to you, know that this is a privilege they don’t bestow
lightly on a lot of people. Because cats don’t like
humans to be forward, it can sometimes seem as though they make a beeline for people
with no interest in them, even preferring the company of those
who actively dislike cats over cat lovers. We see this in Angela’s unusual eagerness toward Senator Robert Lipton --
who turns out to be gay -- and even in the way
she pursues Dwight in periods when he seems to
have moved on from her. “Extend the fingers more.”
“Whack!” “Good.” “This looks like a hoot.”
“Hey, monkey, how you doing?” When carefully approaching,
it’s also worth remembering that cats are famous for self-protection. “Don’t let pride ruin your whole life.” They will go to great lengths
to hide fear, pain, or illness. “Well, I guess you needed the money
more than me, huh? Use it wisely.” Angela’s standoffish nature
hides a deep vulnerability, “I’m sorry about your cat.”
[Crying] and it takes a long time for this
sensitive soul to let her guard down. “Why is she marrying Andy?” “Angela’s not really a risk taker.
And Andy’s not really a risk.” We can see this at play
in her friendship with Oscar. Because of the hard
front she puts up, for many years he doesn’t even realize
what close friends they’ve become. “Holy cow, look at what they’re doing.” “She’s repositioning his hips
for downward facing dog.” [Gasps] “I’ve heard
of this... dog style.” But when Oscar has an affair
with the Senator, she’s more hurt by her friend’s treachery
than her husband’s. “You can't have someone murdered!”
“What if they deserved it?” Whereas her marriage to Robert is
short-lived and superficial, Oscar’s betrayal cuts so deep
because of how much her work-pal has come to mean to her
over the years as she’s gradually opened up her real self to him. “You were supposed to be my friend.”
“I’m so sorry, Angela!” This episode illustrates that you should be very careful
about crossing a cat person. “It has to be physical.
I want this person to suffer.” And the cat person is known
to hold a grudge. “I don't back down. My sister and I
used to be best friends, and we haven't talked in 16 years
over some disagreement I don’t even remember.” When Oscar finally asks her
to move in with him so that she doesn’t become homeless, “The county took my cats.” it’s clear how much she needs him. “Thank you.” “You’re welcome.
Let’s go get Phillip.” even though the proud cat-person will
never admit how much she’s struggling. “I don't need pity,
and I don’t need charity. I have my dignity, and that’s enough.” Cats are a spiritual symbol of patience, and that’s exactly what
they demand of others. “Are you allowed to have pets?”
”Oh, Angela.” Since the cat person isn’t great
at communicating their feelings, they might express stress or unhappiness through irritability, snappiness,
and lashing out. “The thought of popping
one of your beets into my mouth makes me want to vomit.” Still, once the cat person is won,
she’s incredibly loving and fervent. “Save Bandit!”
[Cat howling] as well as physically affectionate. Angela’s warmth comes through
in her connection with the sister we meet -- presumably another cat person,
as the two even have their own language, “Phoffylloxis broffoux
woffine in boffoloxes.” Just as you might say
most people don’t speak “cat” and therefore can’t access
Angela’s inner world. Recent academic research showed that
secure attachment in cat-human bonds can surpass that of
dog-human bonds and even that of the bond
between parent and child. “Without my cats I am utterly
and completely alone.” “Angela, you still have your son.”
[Sighs] “I guess.” Keep in mind that the cat person
may express her love in unconventional ways, too. Though she can be mean to Phyllis
and Pam on the surface, she shows her trust by letting herself
be physically vulnerable with Phyllis, and reveals how much
she values Pam by offering her the most precious thing
in the world -- a kitten. “I like having these
little moments with you. You know what? Sprinkles recently had kittens.” “Oh...” “I would like to offer you
the dominant male.” Get in touch with the wild animal
within yourself, too. “Hey, monkey.” Part of the reason Dwight
and Angela are so connected is that they relate to each other’s
primal physicality and instincts. “If you want a wolf, you have to trap it.
And then you have to tame it. Keep it happy. Care for it.
Feed it. Lovingly. The way an animal
deserves to be loved.” But for a long time, he doesn’t grasp
that she’s specifically a cat, “Just encourages copycats.” “Just say copies. Why do you have
to drag cats into this?” and he doesn’t get the way
her “cat mind” works. “But not in your bed. It’s lumpy.” “Those lumps are cats,
and those cats have names, and those names are Ember,
Milky Way, Diane, and Lumpy.” Even if he twice likens
himself to a big cat, “I am somewhere between
a snake and a mongoose… And a panther.” “I’m the lion.” ultimately, Dwight is a farmer. He respects animals but considers
himself to be in charge of them. “My grandfather was told that
Diamond Dancer would never race again.” “Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa...” So the idea of keeping a pet merely
for the pleasure of its company is nonsensical to him.
It takes years for Dwight to come around to the fact that the best
relationships are not transactional. “I’m with Esther now.
She’s younger than Angela, sturdier, more comfortable with
the scent of a manured field.” Famously, you can’t herd cats. So the fact that this farmer
falls for a cat -- the one animal he thinks
is worthless to a farm -- “Cats do not provide
milk or wool or meat.” represents that there’s
a complexity in Angela that evades his understanding,
but ultimately captures his heart. Thus, in order to sustain
your relationship with the cat person, you must develop your ability
to grasp nuance. If you upset them -- like Dwight does when he kills
Angela’s beloved cat, Sprinkles -- “Sprinkles’ body was in the freezer
where Dwight said he left her. But all my bags of frozen french fries
had been clawed to shreds!” It can take a long time until you’re forgiven. Five series’ worth of drama
could have been avoided if he’d taken proper care
to appreciate how passionately Angela loves her feline family. “You have your cats on nanny cam?” “I am proud to announce there’s
a new addition to the Martin family. She’s hypoallergenic; she doesn’t struggle
when you try to dress her.” To love a cat person (or any person, really),
is to love what she loves, simply because it’s an extension of her. “Her father was in ‘Meet the Parents.’
Needless to say she was very expensive.” Cat people can be hard work.
They may push you away. They may test you, to assess
the strength of your feelings and how far you’ll go to protect them. They may ask a lot, while
seemingly giving little back and doing whatever they feel like. But in the end, investing the time to
decode the cat person’s hidden feelings, to prove yourself, and
to make them comfortable enough to share their goofy, devoted
personality with you… pays off. The relationship Dwight achieves
with Angela is worth the wait. “THIS EXPRESSES
HOW LOUDLY I LOVE YOU.” Proof that with patience and trust, the cat-human relationship
can become unbreakable. When the cat person decides
they love you, that bond is for life. Cat-human love can be so strong you feel
like you’d do anything for them -- and that’s exactly
how your cat likes it. “If you pray enough, you can
change yourself into a cat person.” “Those guys always turn back, Angela.” to check it out today. 