Hello~ Solarsido Solar here. [Kind of shy]
I'm really barefaced. Today's challenge is A makeup challenge for when
going out to eat tteokbokki. I'm going to hurry and put on suncream. (Squeeze) Why makeup for when going to eat tteokbokki?? Because I like tteokbokki ♥ So I prepared this (Pure) Makeup for when eating tteokbokki. If you don't absorb the suncream well,
it ruins your makeup a lot. I'm going to put on foundation. First, when going to eat ttokbokki Your face can become red So, matching the tone This is 30.. I mix 30 and 20. (Plop) (Plop) [Shake it shake it] It's a bit dark But your face will get hot and flushed when
eating tteokbokki (Perfectly logical) So match your skin tone, but not brightly. The bread (a.k.a. puff) With the textured side. (Pat it) Did I put on too much foundation? You might think that~ But once you apply it?? (Pat it until you stop thinking that) I washed this bread(?) right before filming So there is a bit of moisture, slightly moist. I think it's good starting it moistly like this. If you do it when it's dry, you're using it like a compact. If it's moist... It's a bit more... Um... (Found the answer)
It feels like it's getting absorbed better. With the coated side Just press it in place. Coating it. Lip balm I got from Byulie. (Byul-ah, thank you) (Today's point) is tteokbokki I'm going to go with makeup with reddish vibes. Cream shadow on my eyes first. You could be curious [Knows Yongwang well] It's a Tom Ford product. [Tom Ford cream and powder eye color
03 Golden peach] My eyebrows What I always use. Eye shadow. And then with this pencil [finish]. (Focus) I should try eye shadow, right? [Ta-da~] [Dont' forget!]
Since it's a tteokbokki concept, a bit reddish. I'm going to mix these three and apply it. [Do-re-mi-re-mi-re-do] (Reddish, like dissolving gochujang in water] I'm going to draw eyeliner. I use a pen. (Peek-a-boo) What is this? Surprised. I start from the end. (Slowly draw it out long) (Fill in the tear line) (Comparative analysis) With the end, I'll use these 3 [Using the three colors]
I'm going to clean up the line. (Cleaning up) (Like applying seasoning)
Just the double eyelid part with red color I'm going to apply mascara. I'm not going to recommend this product. Because this has the flaw of running too much... But I only have this mascara right now. [Pull together focus and apply it to every strand] I usually do the under with
concealer on the dark circles. [Pat it with your eyes wide open] The cream shadow from earlier I'm going to apply it to my under.
(That cream shadow from earlier) I'm going to try applying this. This shadow is quite old. It's called Etude strawberry macaron. (Quite old strawberry macaron) A bit of this pearl. (Adding pearl) The triangle zone, it's really important. With these three again. The unnie who does my makeup
says 'just apply it~' (Wide-eyed) But I'm not sure where
you need to start to just apply it. I need to draw on the pearl This is something that I used a lot.. (Ah) For a long time.. (Oh geez...) The date has passed.
(Expired relic discovered) It was until 2019.
[This is also quite old...) Let me use it just until today. (And then let's never see each other again) You all can't do this.
[>>Do not follow along<<] If it's expired, you can't use it. Okay? Promise. (Subscribe~ like~) Mascara is the hardest to do.
[Mascara-ing that need focus] My eyelashes... There are parts that grow out however they want So I have to put them down with heat a bit. (Precise work) I'm going to try using this for the blush. Dear Dahlia's Pear Lady. When I eat tteokbokki Your cheeks will burn up anyway
(Seems she's going to eat Yeop Tteok) There's no need to put much
emphasis on your cheeks. Oh, this color is pretty. (Look at pretty things twice) It's really lovely. Although it's a bit much to say it myself~ Shading. Too Cool For School by Rodin Shading. (National Shading) It's three like this. Just mix all three And then hit your jaw. (Almost there)
Before applying the lipstick. I'm going to remove the lip balm I applied earlier. (Ventriloquism)
I always apply lip balm Wipe them and the apply it. I simply tone it down with compact first. I need to apply something that's tteokbokki-like first. I think I need to apply something that's matte first. I'm going to try this one first. Tom Ford's Marabou? (It's pretty, right?) This is really pink. It's pretty. I'm going to apply special lipstick. What it is, is a a Louboutin lipstick. I heard it's really expensive. It's a lipstick I received as a gift.
[Figure of a star] Showing off~ The case looks like this.
(Even has a string) You can hang it on your neck.
(Easy to show off) It looks really pretty, right? (Situational acting with no context) It looks like tteokbokki, too.
[Tteokbokki-like lipstick] So I will try applying this. Oh, it's really red. (Gochujang level) It could get on your teeth, so with a cotton swab Rotate(?) around. It looks tacky .. yet.. ? Seems okay? Lastly, concealer. A makeup challenge for when going
to eat tteokbokki, complete! Wanna go eat tteokbokki together? I tried a makeup for when you go
eat tteokbokki challenge. [Namely] Tteokbokki makeup. [This is] Tteok-ma. This lipstick at first... I thought it was somewhat tacky But, constantly looking at it, it looks pretty. Because I'll be eating tteokbokki I put a focus on the lips. Since your lips will become covered
in tteokbokki sauce So I tried choosing a tteokbokii-like lipstick. The blusher, a bit lightly. Because your cheeks will burn up. (It seems she's going to eat Yeop Tteok's original version) Thank you for watching today's challenge until the end. Next time, I will return with a great challenge. Thank you~ Bye~ (Subscribe, like) It's raining like this today. As expected, on a rainy day, it's tteokbokki~ It's really raining a lot.. Whoa I'm going to Leave to eat tteokbokki. Bye~ I know. I know. I know. You know? You know? I know. [Subtitles by ch0sshi & LilySUBS] 