- So, in April, I made a video about the Nintendo Switch LAN adaptor, and I titled that video
Don't Buy a LAN Adaptor for Your Nintendo Switch, because something just wasn't right. It wasn't working as intended. We already knew that the USB 3.0 port on the back of the Switch's dock doesn't work as a USB 3.0 port, and I was getting the same, if not better speeds from my WiFi. Now, with Smash Ultimate
out and Sakurai himself suggesting players go out
and buy a LAN adaptor, and also all the countless comments telling me I'm a goddamn idiot and that I should kill myself, it's time to revisit that LAN adaptor. That old video is now very wrong, but there is definitely some
tom foolery happening here. In that last video, I give a
lot of technical information about how playing games online works, and the differences
between USB 2.0 and 3.0, and despite all of the comments telling me that I don't know what I'm talking about, all that information is accurate. In fact, I think it's a
very informative video. If you wanna learn more
about that kinda stuff, I think you should go watch that video after you watch this one. The only thing that I
wish that I drove home just a little bit better
is that if you have a (censored) WiFi connection,
then a LAN adaptor will absolutely help. I don't know why I have to say that, but apparently I do. WiFi can be unstable or inconsistent. This can affect your ping,
which is what measures the responsiveness of your device. Ping is a lot more important
for playing video games than internet speeds. This is something that I
did not say in my video. I screwed up and I'm sorry. You didn't have to be so
mean to be about it, jeez. If you have (censored) WiFi,
ping is going to be a problem. If you have halfway decent WiFi, then ping isn't going to be a problem. Despite all the IT guys
coming out of the woodwork telling me wired is always better, we're just playing video
games on a Nintendo Switch. We're not transferring 8K
video files, all right? Calm down, Linus Tech Tips. I'm always looking at products from the lens of a consumer who doesn't know what the
hell they're looking at, and most people are gonna
see a LAN adaptor and think, oh, internet speeds,
this will be good for me! It's not gonna be good for everybody. Nobody knows what your home
internet situation is like, only you do, and that
was the biggest criticism of that video, people telling me I need to learn more about netcode. Do you even know what netcode is? Netcode is a blanket term
for anything that somehow relates to networking in online games. According to this same wiki, netcode as a term tends to be used only in the gaming community, as it is not recognized as an
actual computer science term, which explains why I
never heard that term used in my high school CISCO networking class, which I did very poorly in. But goddammit could I
calculate a subnet mask, which I've never had to
use in the real world 'cause it's all automatic now. Anyway, I had to get through all of that because I thought that the biggest problem with the Switch's LAN adaptor was that the Switch only supports USB 2.0. Even though it has a USB 3.0
port on the back of its dock, that port only works as a 2.0 port. The Switch itself only recognizes USB 2.0. USB 2.0 isn't the best
for internet connections for two reasons. One, its theoretical max speed is about 10 times slower than USB 3.0, which isn't that big of a deal, given we're talking
about video games here. But the bigger problem is that the USB 2.0 device has to
pulled by the computer, or in this case, the Switch,
in order to send information. That means the Switch has to go, hey, you got any of
that information for me? And then the LAN adaptor will go, where have you been,
there's been so much data! April Bob wasn't endorsed
by Dollar Shave Club. I feel like I have to
keep reiterating this throughout the video as
kind of a disclaimer. Even with all these shortcomings, USB 2.0 might be better for you than what you currently have. But if your Switch's network connection is already fine as is, then a LAN adaptor isn't gonna make things
that much better for you. So, when I tested this hoary
LAN adaptor back in April, the speeds were absolute trash, to the point where my WiFi was faster, and I never noticed any low
ping or instability issues when using WiFi in the past, so I thought this LAN
adaptor was complete trash. I rationalized these low speeds by blaming it on the USB 2.0 bottleneck. The theoretical max speeds of USB 2.0 are 480 megabits per second, but everybody knows that
you never get up that high. It's just a theoretical cap. Especially with game consoles. There's some weird phenomenon
where console manufacturers will limit their internet speeds. The PS4 is know for doing this. It's super annoying. Anyway, this isn't the problem, because as far as we know,
Nintendo still has not updated that port on the back to be a 2.0 port instead of a 3.0 port. In fact, on the spec
sheet on their website, they just say it's straight up a 2.0 port. They don't even pretend like
it's a 3.0 port anymore. Despite all this, after
testing the LAN adaptor now a whole eight months later, it works. I'm getting 100 megabit per second speeds. That's blazing fast. I'm gonna leave it connected
to my dock all the time now. Initially, I thought that maybe they just enabled the port on the
back to be USB 3.0 finally, but nope, the ports on the sides give me the same exact speeds. So what changed here? I don't know. I managed to get my hand on a Switch that hasn't been updated since July, thinking that maybe Nintendo
snuck out a firmware update in anticipation for Smash Bros Ultimate. No, that's also getting
100 megabits per second. I tried an old dock too, just in case it could receive firmware somehow. Nope, same speeds. I even tried it on the same
exact router that I used before, and nope, same 100
megabit per second speeds. There's some tomfoolery happening here. I wasn't the only person
to get those slow speeds out of the official Nintendo
network adaptor in the past. So, it wasn't just me, but
I definitely should have tested this more vigorously
if I was gonna make a bold claim like that. Maybe I should've tested it on other people's networks or something, not that my network speeds
were that low at the time, but again, I have no idea why any of this happened. I clearly didn't understand why my Switch and my network adaptor were
acting that way at the time, and I still don't. I'm using all of the same hardware. Now, Sakurai himself suggests that you buy this LAN adaptor so that you'll have a better connection. If you aren't happy with the connection that you have right now, then you should absolutely buy a network adaptor. If you have a decent connection already, shelling out that 30 bucks
isn't 100% necessary, unless you wanna make
downloading games faster. And this is where I'll get
in trouble for this video. Just like every other
fighting game on the planet, Smash uses a peer-to-peer
connection when playing online. That means that, if the
person you're playing against has a (censored) connection, you will also have a
(censored) connection. If you're playing a four player match and one person has a
(censored) connection, then everybody will have
a (censored) connection. Eric playing on your mobile hotspot. Eric said, I'm using your phone internet 'cause I'm not at home. It shows 14 down and
5.6 up, which is great, but it's phone internet. - [Man Off Camera] I mean,
all things considered, four player match with phone internet, it was running pretty
good, now that I know that. - He said it doesn't work
like when I watch streams and play at the same time. He was also watching the stream. And this is the reason
for all of the problems that people have been complaining about. If everybody in the
world buys a LAN adaptor for their Nintendo Switch,
then Smash's online might be a little bit better, but that's not going to happen, and that's not going to help the people in the middle of Kansas who have a (censored) connection to their ISP. A lot of people in the
fighting game community like to think that
peer-to-peer connections are the best connections to have because they're the fastest. These people think that dedicated servers add a third computer into the mix that could slow things down or add an additional
variable that could go wrong. This isn't true in the slightest. A dedicated server acts as a buffer. It's the middle point
between the two connections. If one person's connection is crappy, the other person's connection
will be unaffected. This stops people with garbage connections from ruining the game for everybody else. I'm trying to make sure that I do my best not to leave anything out in this video. Another argument for
peer-to-peer connections in fighting games is the input lag. If there's no dedicated server, then your input will automatically be transferred to the other player. If you've ever played Smash for the Wii U, you know that this isn't the case. I'll below, I'll write a post
that describes it better. Actually, I'll also put
it on screen real quick so you can just pause it. Okay, goodbye. The only reason that fighting games don't have dedicated servers is because it would be really expensive, and all of the games are one-on-one, so there's so many
games happening at once. The difference between Smash Bros and every other fighting game is that that there's four player matches, but also, it's on track to being the best selling fighting
game of all time. The current top two best
selling fighting games are Smash Bros Brawl and
Smash Bros for the 3DS. I get why there's no dedicated servers, but latency isn't the excuse. It's the worst excuse. So, I've been playing Smash Bros online with and without the LAN adaptor, and there really haven't
been too many issues. The LAN adaptor isn't gonna make you miraculously impervious to slow down. That will still happen. But playing Smash Bros Online isn't as bad as everybody says that it is. Just stay away from four player battles. You're about three times more likely to run into problems if
you do four player battles. The official LAN adaptor
for the Nintendo Switch isn't as bad as I once thought it was. It does its job and it does it well. I also tested the
aftermarket USB 3.0 adaptor I used to use on my Wii U, and that got pretty much the same speeds, so you don't need the
official Nintendo one. If you wanna increase
your download speeds, or if you have stability issues
when playing online games, or if you just wanna ensure that you have the most stable connection possible, then a LAN adaptor will do the trick. My opinion has changed. I will now change the name
of my previous video to My Problem with the Nintendo
Switch's LAN Adaptor, parentheses, Update in the
Description, close parentheses. Does that make everybody happy? (booing) Yeah, I saw that coming. So what do you guys think
about network stability on your Nintendo Switch? How has Smash Bros Online been for you? Is there anything you've done that noticeably makes it run better, like for example, buying a LAN adaptor? Or are we just forever doomed to sometimes play games in slow motion? Leave it in the comments
below, at me on Twitter, all the social media garbage. I'm sure you're gonna do that anyway. What about the whole point of this video? Are you just like me, did you
have a LAN adaptor in the past that had terrible speeds,
but now all of a sudden it has great speeds? I wanna hear from you the most, 'cause maybe I'm not crazy, maybe that's a thing we
can get to the bottom of. I just wanted to take a minute to say how dope my outfit is. When you wear something
open over this shirt, it looks nice as hell. You can get that over
at wulffdenapparel.com, along with the other stuff. People love this hoodie. Of course, we got new videos
all the time over here. Schedule's in a pinned
tweet over on Twitter. We've got livestreams here at YouTube and livestreams over
on twitch.tv/wulffden. Come on down to one of those livestreams and we can talk to each
other live, live, live. But of course, the most important things that you can do to help
support this channel is just subscribe, that's
it, that's all we need. And chances are, you're
watching these videos through your suggested feed on YouTube. One day, YouTube's just not gonna suggest them to you anymore, so you wanna subscribe
so you keep seeing this. That was a bad sell. But of course, share
this video with a friend. That's the other important
thing you can do. A friend who has an awful connection, a friend that you've been
playing Smash Online with and it's just, it's slow
motion the whole time. Thank you guys very much. You have yourselves a good week. 