From History’s first recorded name to how
many animals are on the planet, we answer several of your most curious questions about
life. 10 - MarkoRRM - What would happen if everyone
lived on one continent? - I’d hate it! That means more annoying neighbours to put
up with. “Oh Mister Hellbent, do you have a spare
light bulb?” “Oh Mister Hellbent can you please stop
shooting cans in the middle of the night?” “Oh waaah Mister Hellbent can you please
not park your truck on my husband?” - It sounds like you’re the annoying neighbour. - Shut up, bird. You probably live in a tree somewhere, WITHOUT
a subscription to Wix, and the only neighbor you have to worry about is a cat trying to
eat you. - That’s not true! My neighbors are crows… they can be pretty
loud. - * Things would certainly seem more crowded. Technically it is possible to fit roughly
7 billion people into the state of Texas but it would be completely unsustainable. There are other problems that come with overpopulation
in an area, such as cultural clashes, farming and resource struggles. 9 - grutraz - What was the first recorded
name? - Archaeologists have delved deep into the
ancient tombs of Egypt. There, in those dark claustrophobic tunnels
of antiquity they found: carved into the dusty stone tablets, the first name that ever was. - *
- It was me. It was Hellbent. Currently the oldest known name can be found
on a tablet dating back to the second half of the fourth millennium BC in southern Mesopotamia. The inscription on the tablet is believed
to be of a trade transaction, which reads as “29,086 measures barley 37 months”
and is signed by a man named “Kushim”, believed to be an ancient accountant. 8 - kittencrazy167 - Can a disease become
“extinct”? - They can and that’s a big problem. - *
- Hello there, I’m Hellbent. Did you know that the disease, Smallpox, has
been almost entirely wiped out? It’s unfortunately true. Only a small handful of samples remain, caged
up in laboratories worldwide. But with your help (and generous donations)
we can help Smallpox return to the world, where it belongs. - There is no way anybody is going to fund
you releasing Smallpox into the world, you maniac! - Don’t be so sure. - *
- Thanks, Grim. Although technically not extinct, as small
quantities still exist for research, the disease known as Smallpox has been eradicated due
to immunization by vaccines. So far smallpox has been the only disease
to be eradicated worldwide while great efforts are being made to also eradicate Diphtheria
and Measles, among other dangerous diseases. 7 - Kordell Cunningham - Who is in charge
of designing a country’s currency? - Little known fact, I’m working on my own
currency. That way I don’t have to use the bank’s
money, I’ll have my own legal tender! I’ve got my top guy working on the designs
right now. - *
- I hate everything about this, but with Hellbent’s charisma I can’t help but do everything
he says. - …and? - Also he’s… manly… or something? - I’ll let you go home soon, it won’t
be much longer. - Yeah. Thanks. Most countries have a central bank that prints
its national currency. For the United States in particular, it is
the Bureau of Engraving and Printing that designs the Federal Reserve Notes for the
Federal Reserve, the nation’s central bank. Other countries may have a similar system,
for example the central bank of the UK is the Bank of England and can issue banknotes
in England and Wales. 6 - LovetoShuck - Why do potatoes sprout roots
when they go bad? - Because they obviously didn’t subscribe
to WIX, clearly their moldy website didn’t go as planned. You don’t need JavaScript or C++ skills
for this, GET OUTTA HERE! They’ve got templates, drag-and-drop tools
and 24/7 phone & email help- - Hey! We’re talking about potatoes-
- Too true – STOP BEING A POTATO AND USE WIX. - That’s all. Potatoes sprouting is a natural part of their
life cycle. During the colder months of winter, potatoes
remain in the ground and only begin to sprout in the warmer spring season. It’s important when storing Potatoes to
keep them in a dry cool area, which prevents them from sprouting. I should also mention that shrunken potatoes
that have sprouted are considered toxic and you probably shouldn’t eat them. 5 - Xkishuu_Draws - If we lined up everyone
one by one on the Earth, could we circle around the World? - Why not launch everyone into space? Then they can circle the Earth in orbit. Like the rings of Saturn, only instead of
rocks and dust, it’s people. - We would need a lot of spacesuits to make
that happen. - …Who said anything about spacesuits? - * It’s impossible to get an accurate number
due to the many variables but if we took the circumference of the planet Earth, which is
about 40,075,000 metres and the population which is roughly 7.6 billion. Then the average height of a human male, which
is about equal to arm span at 1.7 metres. Now multiply the population of Earth by the
average height and divide your answer by the circumference of Earth, you get 322.4. Which, under these parameters, means if everyone
were to line up with their arms extended we would circle the world 322 times. - What about fat people? - Listen, don’t take the answer too literally,
it’s just a thought experiment. There are too many variables to get an accurate
answer. - No fatties in the line up, gotcha. 4 - Keren Fuentes - How many animals are there
in the world? - Too many and most of them are useless. I’ve put together this helpful chart to
show you what I mean. - *
- As you can see, we have Pigs, Cows and Chickens or “food” as they are otherwise known. Dogs also get a pass, they’re loyal and
they’ll bite people that annoy you. The rest of these though - not necessary. - *
- Hmm - Hey Melissa! Would you say you are chicken-like? - What!? No! - Uh huh - That’s another for the useless
side then. - * Although we do not know the exact amount of
individual animals on the planet we do know that to date, there are around 1.2 million
documented animal species on Earth. However, it is estimated that the total number
of animal species on the planet number around 8.7 million. Although it is hard to get an accurate estimate
due to the rate that species go extinct. 3 - Buchi2005 - Why do different countries
have different cultures? - Don’t know but a lot of them talk funny,
that’s for sure. Take Dolan for example, he’s from that island
where they all sound like “Allo govnah, ya fancy a cup of tea or what mate?” - You’re thinking of the wrong island. - Don’t give me lip, I don’t even know
what weird country you’re from. - Canada. - Ha-ha! Come on now, don’t make things up, that’s
my job. We all know Canada is just a fairytale. - * The people and groups that make up the society
of a nation will often share a common culture. This cultural bond is due to race, ethnicity
or shared views and beliefs. Ethnic groups across the world each have their
own culture defined by their ancestry, religion, sense of history and language. 2 - Rylee Scott - How do we know if planets
are ‘planets’? - I’m about to tell you all a personal story. It’s about Wix. - Noooooooooooooooo-
- I was lost. People on the internet knew my face, but didn’t
know my name (it’s Hellbent, by the way) But that all changed when father Wix reached
down with a hand of mercy and offered me total creative freedom-
- You’re mixing up a website-building service with GOD-
- -and lo, fully-automatic video integration & a public community forum built (*snaps fingers*)
like that. Every day, I’m blessed – by Wix. You could say I live on… PLANET Wix. - …Are you done? - Subscribe. That’s all. - You’re going to break that mic. - Worth it. Planets are defined as an object that first,
orbits the Sun. Secondly, it has enough mass to be sufficiently
round. Thirdly, that it’s not a satellite of another
object. And finally, it has removed or has very little
debris around its orbit. It was this final definition that caused Pluto
to be reclassified as a Dwarf Planet in 2006. 1 - Gavin Jones - What allows starfish limbs
to grow new parts? - Although Starfish are on my list of useless
animals they do have one redeeming feature. It’s that they are not pushovers. If you pick a fight with a Starfish they are
not going to go down easy, you can pummel them all you want, even chop parts off and
they’ll keep coming at you. - *
- Yeah! Go on Starfish! Kick his butt! - WHOSE SIDE ARE YOU ON, WOMAN?! Starfish have cells similar to humans during
early development called Stem cells. However unlike humans who cells mature and
lose the ability to develop new body parts, Starfish do not. Under the right signals their cells can keep
growing and retain the ability to grow into whatever proportion is needed. - Phew! but I got nothing. 