(Manila Concert D-1) Hello That's what happened This is a real problem these days Sales 50% sales I should go look around in this place I came out to read some newspaper Because I need to know
what's going on in the world I heard that it's a very nice
cafe to read newspapers Wow, it's fun What do you think about this problem? Ah, this is a bit serious, huh? This man is larger than the train It's serious, huh? Please edit this scene (a variety of food they enjoy in Manila) (protein) (people normally come to a cafe for reading newspapers)
(and eat this much, huh?) (yum yum yum) (2019 IU TOUR CONCERT [Love Poem]) (is this Hyesun..?) (Manila Concert D-day) (long time no see,
IU team's top) (he has 3 months of experience 
in boxing indeed) I just want to become the 'top fighter' (Corona) (a celebrity shows up) Hello Hello Why are you feeling so good? I'm waiting here right now Wow, I just figured out now that
the shoes look like this (a fancy feet move by the excited person) All of a sudden, huh No, I'm waiting here right now I guess.. IU already came out there, huh? The crowd is cheering like that already They're doing it for several minutes now (look look) Ah, I guess there's another
performance today (IU IU) Am I the only one hearing it now? IU IU It's really the city of passion It's similar to, 
or above Busan I think they're really having a party It's all like a festival I think everyone would suddenly
get up and dance there When I visit Manila next time, I should do a standing-performance.. For the first time in IU concerts I guess it's good to do
a standing-performance once.. You're confident, right? (maybe I am?) Let's go, let's go
let's go (IU is feeling good before the 
beginning with the cheering sound of MAENA) (releaving her nervousness
with an endless yawning) (did many of you come here, MAENA?) The local staffs behind
greeted me as well (exciting exciting)
(let's go to see MAENA quickly) (after a long time since no one knows when)
(IU goes up the stage excitingly) (the performance is started with
events and excitement by the famous MAENA) (IU got excited as well) (the festival-like site where everyone
became one that no standing was needed) (she tells a story she wanted to 
share calmly sometimes) (thanks to Manila fans she met first time)
(the stage had endless happy smiles) (such sincere minds of the fans
remained deep inside IU's mind) I like it so much They got so excited It feels like everyone of us were
enjoying the time inside the music Just like my name,
just like IU I got the feeling that we 
became one with music Mahal Kita (all the staffs are feeling sad
just like the fans after the concert was over) This is not the one (thank you everyone who joined the concert) (shush) Dismiss (Kuala Lumpur Concert D-2) (KUAENA came to see her at the airport)
(it's so nice to see you, thank you) (gifts from KUAENA neatly 
arranged in the room) (I'm sleepy) It's said MALAENA, MALAENA I was about to call KUAENA though I really wish that KUAENA's minds
are delivered to Jieun I wish you to have a good sleep
with a good dream Why are these people so nice Don't take the things from my room You should not eat such things Chief security Yeah? There's a thief inside my room.. (here's one as well, huh?) Give it back to me, I said There's another one here,
you can't even eat all of these But still, it's mine No This is mine KUAENA also prepared the 
balloons over here (ta-da) (Kuala Lumpur Concert D-day) What can you see? (rattle rattle)
(IU is busy since early in the morning) I'm having a meal now,
let's do it a little later (it really looks delicious, huh?)
(greedy IU eats good things all by herself) Ah Ah How come you can't even eat it
when I give it to you? Ah, I supposed to send 
a letter somewhere quickly (her speed of typing the typewriter
is faster than for keyboard) (no one would believe it, but she's 
so strong in using alaogue machine) This video.. will be released in summer next year.. What do you think of this? It's a gold I newly purchased this time It's a golden pine cone As expected The symbol of rich A golden candle A golden leaf A golden frame As expected, the symbol of rich It looks elegant as soon as I wear it, huh? As expected, you're dlwlrma ('gold') I don't handle anything
other than golden frame A beautiful person leaves a beautiful spot when she leaves As expected, she left here
leaving her beauty Everyone knows that words, right? You've seen it at least once in your life You've got more decorations 
on your head today Ah, I have these originally though? Ahh The flowers are blooming on your head Ah, this is originally.. my gene Is the gene from your mother's side? This one? This one, uh,
as I heard it It's from my great-great grandmother... (okay) It's our first time visiting Kuala Lumpur Is it Kuala Lumpur? It's not the first time for me though? When did you come here? Ah here.. don't you know? Kuala Lumpur? I don't really know it well.. It's my first time here as well I thought you came here 
yourself without me How was it? In Kuala Lumpur? Today is the 3rd day, right Huh? It's not, you know? (react to it quickly) We slept here two days, huh? That's right It's our 3rd day in Kuala Lumpur In fact.. since I've been enjoying
ho-cation here I didn't come out from my room But I heard that the surrounding here
is really nice and clean I couldn't go out from my room
since I've been enjoying ho-cation The hotel was really good I think you prepared so much for today Today All the outfits I prepared for Kuala Lumpur are pretty What's the reason for preparing
the outfits in Kuala Lumpur beautifully? Well. it's always the same Do you have any hidden relationship
with Kuala Lumpur? Why did you prepare 
more beautiful one for Kuala Lumpur? I always work hard It looked beautiful every time though Thank you Am I already on the stage? I'm saying, did another IU
come up the stage It's almost, a little I'm looking forward to the same tension
that I saw in Manila, in today's concert as well My hometown is a mountain village 
with blooming flowers (everyone was embarrassed with
the song selection no one expected) Uh? The audience did not come in yet The audience did not come in yet No, they did Look, would you look over here? I'll let you spectate Seoul,
look at it once You can see it, right? (Seoul spectating in pain that
only experienced ones know) - Where, where?
- I can't see over there (no smile now! with a serious posture)
(it's time to see KUAENA) (a chronic hand greeting 
(x3 fast forwarded)) Go Go I said, go
(I can't say goodbye now, my arm hurts) Jihwan, drag him out Drag him out (hello? Kuala Lumpur)
(it's your first time in IU Concert, right?) (we prepared this and that
since we didn't know what they like) (pretty outfit, stage, beauty)
(all the things were precious in the concert) (in the end, the green light firefly event
prepared by KUAENA is shown) (I wish you to linger the memory on that day)
(and have a good dream, KUAENA) Why.. after the concert is finished Why is there no one asking me
to take photos with? I guess the people don't like me anymore Even until the Seoul Concert, there was always a line of people
asking me to take photos with 