We are here for a really exciting announcement in the ASUS ROG event. We are here for a really exciting announcement in the ASUS ROG event! This, my friends, is the ROG Phone and they are calling it 'a game changer' This, my friends, is the ROG Phone and they are calling it 'a game changer' And they are calling it a game-changer With epic performance, unbeatable visuals, and total control. with epic performance, unbeatable visuals and total control. And there are actually some pretty compelling arguments to make for that, And there are actually some pretty compelling arguments to make for that: So first of all they're using Qualcomm's fastest bin-ed Snapdragon 845 processor So first of all they're using Qualcomm's fastest Snapdragon 845 processor – this thing is clocked at 2.98 GHz under use. This thing is clocked at 2.98 GHz, under use It's got 8 GB of RAM, 128 or 512 GB of storage, so it's basically balls-to-the-wall specs It's got 8 GB of RAM, 128 or 512 GB of storage, so it's basically balls-to-the-wall spec and their plan to keep this thing cool is a vapor-chamber cooler and their plan to keep this thing cool is a vapor-chamber cooler so if you're one of those people who is not in to the whole "yes, phones need to be much slimmer, slimmer every time" so if you're one of those people who is not in to the whole 'yes, phones need to be much slimmer, slimmer every time' then you're going to like this, because it's got some heft to it, it's got some thickness to it, then you're going to like this, because it's got some heft to it, it's got some thickness to it, but it's also got some cooling muscle to it But its also got some cooling muscle to it. and, get this, it includes a separate cooling accessory   that clips on to a second USB Type-C port that is on the side of the phone so it's a customised one that allows you to clip this baby on, lock the phone in to place it automatically locks the phone in to landscape mode, check that out, and then you get a Type-C port down here for charging and a 3.5 mm jack so that whether you're just gaming on the phone directly like this or whether you strap on one of the optional accessories: so they're going to have a game-controller piece, and then they've also got this like dual-screen doodad that'll allow you to see like your mini-map on one display and then your game on another display for something like PUBG and then use on-screen displays. Sorry, here's a working one! And then use on-screen controls down here. You will never be bothered by your auto-rotate needing to either be set, or accidentally rotate your phone or whatever else like that Now, I know a lot of you are probably going 'well, that's terrifying, because if I need a separate doodad for my 3.5 mm jack I'm going to cry!' No no, don't worry, so on the bottom you'll find a separate USB-C port for charging, and a dedicated 3.5 mm jack. Now, not to be one-upped by Razer, they're also going after some of the key selling-points of the Razer phone: it includes dual stereo speakers, each with their own separate amplification and anecdotally we've got a couple of reps here saying it's as loud, if not louder and they've got a 4,000 mAh battery, meaning that even if you don't plug-in to this guy which has a separate 6,000 mAh battery and charges the phone while you're gaming you should be able to get a reasonably long lifetime out of this thing. Now they don't have a 120 Hz display. it's 90Hz, but from playing around in the menus it looks like it runs at 90 Hz all the time and it's an AMOLED display, so you get that 1 ms response time to go along with the 90 Hz "Mmm" buttery-smoothness. One last trick up its sleeve is that it has capacitive buttons at the top of the phone that you can actually use as dedicated triggers, and you can re-map them however you see fit. So I am looking forward to a full review here, where I can dig in to the camera – apparently it's similar to the Zenfone 4, which I haven't actually played with – but uhh, I mean the lighting in this room is so terrible that it's impossible for me to really draw any conclusions about it. Oh yeah – software! It's using a skin, ZenUI, so um haven't used it in a while maybe it's improved!? Thanks for watching guys! Subscribe so you don't miss any of our content here at Computex 2018. We'll see you at the next amazing product demo! [spooky laugh] Checkout their new HS-70 gaming headset through the links below 