  What is that? You are doing the same thing again? Where are you? I know you did this What do you want me to expect from seeing this? What the heck are you doing? What the heck are you doing in there? I'm replaced with our new member Hello Yolo people out there!
Yolo Comics! Guess you guys have watched the stealing auto components prank cam If you have not watched it yet,
we highly recommend you to watch it From the prank cam, we had placed a manikin instead of me lying under a car But this time, I'm going to be under a car waiting for targets Let's see how people would react to this prank cam Let's get started now!   The first target for today is Eun-Young Park Found it! Uhm...this is not placed in a good spot I can't see the rear of this car Luckily Yolo can have the enough space from the side Let's get move before she is coming We are here at Eun-Young's parking lot We know that she has a schedule every Monday So we came here 1 hour ahead of her schedule What would she react to seeing Yolo Park 
lying under a car instead of finding a manikin Here has not enough space What takes her so long (Let's see when is she coming) She's coming! (She's here!) (What's going on?) (Yeah right, I've seen this before) Hey! (What the heck are you doing!) I know what you are doing! (Why are you doing this to me again?) I gotta go now!
Come back here faster! Yolo Choong-Ho! I've got nothing to say Get this away from me! I gotta go now! What the heck is this? You have done this before! I gotta go now!
Get this off from me! Hey! Where the hell is he going? Get out now! (Yolo park is waiting for the right moment) If you don't come out, 
I'm going to get this away from me (What does he want me to do with this?) (Heavy) (What is this..?) (Kick) (Let me get out of here) (Peekaboo!) (Peekaboo!) (She freaks out) (A miserable women) (We are sorry Eun-Young) (You Yolo!) She finally freaks out (So mean!) Stand up Are you all alrihgt? (Are you asking me for that?) I was so happy to hear her screaming (You are so mean) What the heck are you doing! I can't believe it! You've been fooled again! I'm speechless.. Bring me back the thing that I threw away! - What is that?
- My cabbage juice You are such a big fan of juice! It's all because of you!
Because you guys freak me out often! - What is this?
- A cabbage juice I need to have this to take care of my health 
Stop freaking me out! (She does take care of her health) Screw up! Yolos! Success! (I'm not going to let this happen again!) (Cabbage snap!) Don't ever come back here   Eun-Young gives Yolo a call - Hey Eun-Young
- Hey! How's your work? Thanks to you, I've made it well You know I'm running a program with Hye-Sun right? - With Hye-Sun?
- Yes I guess you guys can't be easy with Hye-Sun Yes right. She is very tough 
Does she have a car? She doesn't have one but I do have I give her a ride every day So, she is going to come with you after the schedule? Yes right You know that Hye-Sun is really fit since she has been exercising for a while Hold on for a second Hye-Sun....is 
Well...I'm hesitated of doing a prank cam to her Anyway, let's get ready for a prank first Why would I get nervous? We were not supposed to take her call... We are at a parking lot right in front of Eun-Young's car Eun-Young and Hye-Sun will be here soon after finishing their schedule Eun-Young is going to give Hye-Sun a ride They are going to come here together Choong-Ho will pretend to steal car tires and I'm going to lay down under this car This is going to be the last day for us Let us do our best for making this success Let's get started now! Eun-Young gives Yolo a call that 
she's going to come out soon Eun-Young has just gave us a call that she's going to come out soon (They are going to come here soon) (I'm so nervous) They are waiting for her a.k.a an armor They are coming! I'm scared! I'm scared of her too! The ambiance gets changed as she comes Let's make this success 
May the God save us Don't ever move your body (They look happy for now) (Let's get stared now) (She saw it!) (Eun-Young gets started to act) (She's coming faster) What is that?
What are they doing to my car? What is that? Stealing car tires? A T.H.I.E.F? Hey! (Oh...my...gosh) She doesn't get easy on bad things to happen She flies! She is literally flying! She is fxxxing awesome! Hold on for a second
This is me! (Oh my gosh!!) This is me!
Please hold on for a second! What's going on? (She is literally flying high) Evils should go away! (Look at the height) How dare you steal the tire? (Hit) (Poor Choong-Ho....) It's me! Oh god!
(She realizes it is Choong-Ho) (What's going on?) (Choong-Ho passes out after being beaten) What the heck are you doing at here? Wait for a second - This is a prank cam!
- What on earth with a prank cam? We are conspiring with Eun-Youn to make up this idea! Isn't it her tire for real? This is a spare, not hers - I'm shocked!
- I was so scared of you! You are awesome!
You are crazy! - Are you all alright?
- How's your arm? I'm really sorry 
I really didn't know this was a prank cam I should worry about you rather 
than worrying about the tire (Let's move to the next mission) I'm so freak out! You really make me scared! (Yolo Park is waiting for them a while) You really freak me out!
What is that? Is that a manikin? Yes this is a manikin - A manikin?
- Peakaboo! (This looks like a real manikin) This manikin... (She freaks out too) (But Yolo Park gets beaten again) I'm really sorr for what I've just done You bastard! I'm really freak out! You are the best Are you all alright? We deserve it
Don't worry about us I was so freak out to see 
the thief was going to steal her tires (We haven't seen each other for a while) Sorry for what I've done to you It has been a while but I said hello to you with kicks Are you all alright? You show him your hands Yolo Choong-Ho was trying his best 
to get away from her (Yolo Park also gets scratches too) You got something on your face too Today's lesson
Don't mess up with Hye-Sun If that was my car, kicking wasn't the only thing that I could have done. I could have done worse What if that was your car? 
What would you do? (Why....should I do that...?) (She's stretching her body quite easily) She is a real She's making a turn kick real fast She is dope (Warning : Please don't follow this)   Don't ever steal her tires! You don't look like what female has Look at this bag
"Don't every jump low" Please don't mess up with Hye-Sun (I don't know who this to who but) This is success too at the risk of our lives!   Calling to Eun-Young for her help to prank to DJ JJ Hello? I'm planning to prank to DJ JJ though she has been fooled by the prank before She can't get away from this prank too Are you planning to meet her?
No, not soon She doesn't come to Seoul often Where does she live? She lives at Nam-Yang She comes to Seoul for her practice DJ equipment are at her practice room Do you know where that is? Let me ask her Hey She is going to come Seoul this Wed She is coming to Wed 2 pm 
So you might be around there 3 pm Thank you for the information We are at here DJ JJ's practice room We are going to wait for her until she finishes This is her car We will wait for her until she finishes because we don't know when she is going to finish (Waiting for her again) I don't think we can do this during the Winter I want to go pee too 
Please hold on for a sec (My legs)   (She's coming) (She finds out) What the heck are you doing? Sigh... Hey! Is Yolo Park or Choong-Ho? I won't be fooled this time Hey! I know what this is about!
Please come out You are screwed Are we done? Why are you doing this to me again? You are not being fooled this time? Take this with you Take this wit you now! We haven't expected you won't get fooled again! That's enough My car isn't like before         (What's going on!) Yolo Park has been here himself!
I thought it's a manikin! WOW... Gosh... (Speechles..)   What took you so long! Since Choong-Ho was here I thought it's too cliche! - How did you know I'm here anyway?
- Eun-Youg told us Eun-Young... Do you pay for her? What do you think about exposing 
your panties last time? They misunderstood that was panties but it was not!
That was a inner pants That was a inner pants for sure 
Don't get me wrong Please how us how you do Dj-ing (Wow she is so upbeat!) She is such a pro!
I can kick but I'm afraid this is going to be banned You might have been wondering who MBC Hyun-Joo is with yellow hair I was the one who alike with Hyung-Don Jung She looks like him Yes I intentionally gained weight You did gain weight to mimic Hyung-Don? She's mimicking Hyung-Dong Please repeat after me! 