Alright, so what happened last time? Mm-hmm anything special? Let's run through it, Shall we. Gorthan and Julien peaced out. We added a red panda relationship to our party. Saved Rascam, again, from our... rogue dragon *clears throat loundly* Got fancy Sips: Why do I have to wear two shirts? Went to a party with guests, dancing and a hint of poor life decisions? Including a Blood Moon berry and regret. A lot of regret Sips: what? Erina: *laughs* I'm in danger. As Sips sees his curse has returned at 50% Sips: *gasps* So what should I do? A: Remain calm, try to reverse this, seek out help mostly from Gothi. B: Kill Erina tempting OR, C: *horrified gasp* *Panicked scream* Panic. yeah, we're going with panic. Erina: G... Gothi? Gothi: One night. I just wanted one night. Erina: SIPS'S CURSE IS BACK!! *glass breaks* Gothi: What? How? Erina: Uh... someone, not naming names, kind of, sort of, may have thrown a blood moon berry into his mouth and... Gothi: ERINA!! Erina: I THOUGHT IT WOULD BE FUNNY!! Erina: Look I didn't know our DM was this evil? Felix: *laughs in german* Gothi: Erina! You need to fix this. Erina: Yeah, I know. Gothi: Where is he? Erina: He's just right over... huh... *panting* *clears throat* Yeah option C involves a lot of running away But he didn't just run away out of sheer panic, or even fear. No No... uh... he ran away out of... ...shame Shame that after trying so hard to cure this curse with fighting Keenora, Sneezes death and almost losing himself, Sips saw This as... It was all for nothing, and that he had failed As he had time and time again So he runs, as that's all he knows how to do Until Felix asks to roll a Will save. I roll. Sips starts to feel a severe pain in his head He enters a crowd staggering as I succeed my will save. knocking into people. His curse comes into contact with a few citizens Accidentally cursing them Suddenly some start to lose their hair turn purple and transform into beasts he hears screams as the crowd becomes panicked, And realizes what's happening. A frantic man runs towards sips. Felix: Roll Another will save. Sips feel something, then in one motion His cursed arm skewers the man in front of him through the chest Killing him instantly as I failed my first will save Sips steps back in horror and shock, he tries to run, but his legs won't move Felix: Make another will save. Then wild magic shoots off of his body hitting the innocents around him. When he screams from the excruciating pain Resonating in his mind as I failed my second will save. All around him it becomes a scene of chaos He can't see straight, his mind is rushing. He's fighting to keep control. He tries to cast dimensional leap to get out of there but... Felix: Make another will save. He feels it all throughout his body, the overwhelming feeling of Terror rage and eventually madness as I fail my third and final... Will save only at 50% Sips loses that control he was holding on to. And his mind falls into the black In his last moments of consciousness. He hears a voice. A male voice Stern, and precise simply say Calm. Down. Back at the party, where Erina is frantically looking for help, while Gothi quickly takes off to look for Sips, her spear in hand. Gothi: Now I just need to figure out where he went... *various explosions in the background* Gothi: There we go. She rushes in to find a brutal scene, full of destruction, death, and an unsettling Sips. Gothi: uuuuuuuuuh... Gothi: Hey Gothi: Uh, We can fix this. Sips starts to walk towards her. Gothi: Uuuuuh Gothi: Why don't you come back with me, to the party? Gothi: Uh... Gothi: We can all go back to dancing and... But Gothi realizes that she isn't talking to Sips No... she's talking to something else... something... Rotten Gothi: Damn, I guess we're doing this. Role for initiative. Trying to avoid having a panic attack Erina searches the party for anyone who could possibly help. Then sees Erina: Mister Wizardly!! Erina: I Threw blood moon berry into sips his mouth cuz I thought it would be funny... Mr Wizardly: HA! That is funny. Erina: But it wasn't funny Erina: As he's now running around at 50% of his curse and is doing god knows what and I need your help. Mr Wizardly: Wow Mr Wizardly: That really sounds like a YOU problem. Erina: You gotta help! PLEASE!! I'll... I'll pay you Mr Wizadly: With what? Blood? Mr Wizardly: aren't you broke from paying me last time? Erina: Does it have to be my blood? Erina tries to convince Mr Wizardly... somehow... Back with Gothi and Sips, wild magic shoots off everywhere hitting the surrounding areas. As Gothi is holding off Sips in intense combat Against Felix, might I add, who has Sips' character sheet. very fun With slashes and cuts to her, Gothi pushes him back. Sips lunges forward and strikes her upwards across the face, cracking her mask, Causing a small piece to fall to the ground. Gothi: I just Gothi: got this With the blunt side of her spear, Gothi hits him backwards where he staggers. And there they stand in a stalemate 'til something changes. Sips' eyes both go pure black with white irises. His stance changes from a contorted monster, to a poised posture. His gaze fixed to Gothi, and just a moment... She hears him speak, an unfamiliar tone And all he says is Sips: Run *whoosh followed by a thump* And... he gets Knocked out. Erina: Whoop...was, was that plot? Where Erina used a sleeping Dart. Where did she get the sleeping dart? Gothi: Where did you get the sleeping Dart? Erina: Does it really matter? I mean, oh, uh, Erina: Are you okay? Gothi: Uh yeah, I'm fine. And reluctantly falling behind is Mr. Wizardly Mr. Wizardly: Wow, this party looked like it was way more fun Erina: Alright, Mr Wizardly, do your thing. Mr. Wizardly: What? Erina: Fix. Mr. Wizardly: Oh... I don't know how to fix this. Gothi/Erina: What? Mr. Wizardly: What do I look like a cleric? I'm a wizard. Erina: Yeah, a level 20 wizard! Gothi: You must be able to do something. Mr. Wizardly: I mean ... Mr. Wizardly: I could kill him. Erina: hmm... Gothi: Erina! Mr. Wizardly: I'll do it for free. Erina: Let's make that an option B... Gothi: or Z or how about never? Mr. Wizardly: Look one of those berries caused it, right? Well, it should wear off by morning. Mr. Wizardly: *sighs* All right, maybe I can... Mr. Wizardly reaches down and touches Sips' arm. but as he makes contact with his skin, A question comes up in the group. Has Mr. Wizardly ever been touched by Sips' cursed arm Felix: Oh no. Oh, yes Erina/Gothi: Oh sh** Cuz as he makes contact it becomes very clear that he has not, and fails his will save causing us to roll from our handy-dandy curse Sheet, and... MR. Wizardly turns into MRS. Wizardly As his gender gets swapped. Mrs. Wizardly: Huh... *glass breaks* Mrs. Wizardly: Aaaahhhh!!! (continued screaming) Erina: Alright come on, it's not that bad Mrs. Wizardly: MMMMMmm These are the moments I live for in D&D *clears throat*, and guards. All: Sh-*quack*! So, with a bit of magic, prestidigitation and some mending they fix Sips' clothes and leave him in a guarded room in the castle while Erina and Gothi... Are taken to the Baron where they explain the whole situation The berry, Sips losing control... Mrs. Wizardly, all of it. The Baron, first,  furious, slowly becomes a bit more... sympathetic. After all, he can kind of relate. He excuses the party for the mishap but sees it as a favor for previously saving Rascam twice. So now we're even. So there is this looming question in the group now. Why the heck was Sips' curse back? Why did he lose complete control at 50%? And.. was he stuck at 50%? Would he remember? And if not, How could we possibly tell him? There's a lot of *heehhhhhhh* At the table right now. The next day arrives, Erina and Gothi successfully avoiding jail, head to Sips' room where they find him... Back to normal, as the effect of the berry wore off. Erina: Oh, thank god. then he wakes up Erina: Gah! Sips: What... are you doing... in my room? uh... Erina: Do um, do you remember anything from last night? Sips: What? Sips: Uh, yeah. Sips: Wizardly was a jerk, Tex was complaining about something, we were all dancing and uh... Sips: No, God! Sips: I'm still in these clothes Erina: Hey... anything else? Erina: *surprised noise* Gothi: Erina, I don't think he remembers. You need to tell him. Erina: I know, I just... Sips: Wait. Sips: Tell me what? Erina: Uh.. that... Erina: Breakfast is ready? Sips: Oh Sips: Okay, cool.  Gothi: Why are you like this? Erina: Look I just gotta- wait for the right moment. Gothi: Fine, but remember, this is your mess. Gothi: You got to be the one to tell him. Erina: I'm trying to avoid being murdered here. Sips (shouting): Wait Erina: Gah! Sips: Where's Sneeze? Erina/Gothi: Uhh... Uh, yeah. The group looks around the castle, and yep! No Sneeze. Slight panic. So, we walk towards the town where we run into Mister- Missus Wizardly Sips: Oh god. Mr. Wizardly has a sister? There's two? Mrs. Wizardly: Not exactly. Sips: What? Oh! Sips: Damn. Good for you. You do you. Mrs. Wizardly: Hmmmm Erina: Uh...You wouldn't happen to know where Sneeze went after the party, would you? Mrs. Wizardly:  Sneeze, that cat-kanga thing? Mrs. Wizardly: Yeah, he cleared me out last night during poker. Sips: *wheeze* ha! Mrs. Wizardly: And... left with two ladies who spoke of heading to a casino, or whatever. Sips: Yeah, that sounds like him. Mrs. Wizardly: Now, if you'll excuse me. I hate you all, and I am leaving. Erina: Yeah, that's fair. Sips: Wow, what a b-*quack*. The gang walks around looking for casinos, asking around for Sneeze, but: no luck. More panic starts to settle in. Sips: I swear, if this is another resurrection situation, Sips: I will murder someone. Erina: Hmp?! Sips casts locate object on Sneeze's top hat that he was wearing that night. We get a ping, and wander into a dingy alleyway to find the hat, but no Sneeze. Sips: I swear to God- We see a small trail of blood leading to a pile of trash, and just there lying beaten and bloody... Is an unconscious Sneeze. Sips: That's it! I'm murdering someone! Erina: Aaaah! Cool Yeah 