"We should really learn
how to play the real way." "I like our way." Friends’ Phoebe and Joey are each
other’s special favorites “If I gotta turn on
the charm tomorrow, I'm not wasting any more
of it on you guys. Oh, actually I got some
saved for you, Pheebs” “But you know what,
when the revolution comes, I will have to destroy you all. Not you, Joey.” They have a natural chemistry,
find each other attractive, and are on the same
mental wavelength “I found my
identical hand twin!” “Oh, you're so lucky!” So why is it that while
the four other members of the friend group pair off,
we never get to see Phoey -- or Joebe -- become an epic love story? “You know, Monica and Chandler
are married. Ross and Rachel are
having a baby. Maybe you and I should
do something.” “All in good time, my love." The show uses Phoebe and Joey
to present a counterpoint to the idea that cross-gender
friendship is nothing more than a prologue to romance. These besties exemplify the charms of keeping it platonic. “Are you asking me
to have a ‘frienaissance’?” “Sure?” “Alright, although I don't think
we really need one baby, I never stopped loving you” So here’s our take
on how Phoey prove that friendship is true love
by another name. This video is brought
To you by Dashlane, A must have app that's
Like an online bodyguard, Keeping your important
information safe. With Dashlane,
You can generate and store complex passwords, autofill
online forms and do your online shopping in
one click, all with total security. So click the link
In our description below. dashlane.com/the take
to download dash lane and get a free
30 day premium trial Or use promo code THE TAKE
To get 10% off an annual subscription. Five years before Friends premiered,
When Harry Met Sally asked whether men and women
could be “just friends.” “Men and women can't be friends,
‘cause the sex part always gets in the way”
And its verdict? “I came here tonight because
when you realize you want to Spend the rest of your life
with someone, you want the rest of your life to
start as soon as possible” Even before Harry and Sally,
the romance-with-friends was in the 80s zeitgeist. In John Hughes’ original screenplay
for Pretty in Pink, Molly Ringwald’s Andie
ended up with her Best friend Duckie “God, I woulda died for you." When this did poorly
with test audiences, the movie was rewritten
to pair Andie with popular guy Blane,
but Hughes wasn’t happy about this. So he wrote 1987’s
Some Kind of Wonderful, which had essentially
the same story, just with swapped genders
and the happily ever after for the best-friends-in-love “I didn’t know.” “Yeah, well you’re stupid. I always knew you were stupid." Since the 80s,
countless movies and TV shows have come
to the same conclusion: that if a straight man
and woman start off with a close platonic bond,
it will inevitably blossom into romance. "I mean I'm sitting here
with my best friend in the world and
my palms are sweating. I've known you forever,
but I feel like I'm seeing you for
the first time tonight." Friends itself gave us
two iconic examples of this. The show used both couples
to underline that a great friendship is
the foundation of an out-of-this-world romance. “I turned to a friend
for comfort. And instead, I found everything that
I'd ever been looking for my whole life.” "I mean, do you think you
can ever have both? Someone who's like, who's like,
your best friend, but also can make your toes curl.” But at the same time,
others have critiqued the expectation that
opposite-sex best friends were meant to
be lovers. In My Best Friend’s Wedding,
Julia Roberts’ character is almost like a viewer
who’s seen When Harry Met Sally too many times. “Choose me. Marry me. Let me make you happy." But her assumption that
she and her male bestie must be made-for-each-other
is wrong. “Michael's chasing Kimmy." "Yes!" "You're chasing Michael." "Yes!" "Who's chasing you? Nobody. Get it?” “There's your answer: Kimmy." "No!" "Yes! Jules, you are not the one!" Likewise, in Grey’s Anatomy,
best friends Izzie and George sleep together and
think they’re in love -- only for them to realize
they have zero chemistry. “The sex. With Izzie. Horrible” So if you buy into
what rom-coms tell you and leap to the conclusion
that you must be in love with your best friend,
you could end up doing irreparable damage to a
treasured relationship that’s already
perfect as it is. “It's like we're not us anymore. Everything used to be so easy. Critiques like these expose
a problem with the loving-your-friend trope:
it belittles opposite-sex friendship, turning it into
nothing more than prelude to romance. We can see this in the idea
of the “Friend Zone,” which Friends itself
helped popularize when Joey described Ross’ Season One
situation with Rachel: “You waited too long
to make your move and now you're
in the friend zone." The Friend Zone is not
somewhere you want to stay-- it’s a purgatory that
the friend with feelings hopes to move beyond,
once the friend who doesn’t have feelings
(yet) realizes what they’ve been overlooking or repressing. “I'm laying the groundwork. Yeah, I mean, every day I get a little bit closer
To uh--" "Priesthood!” Countless friendship-romances
pay lip service to not wanting to wreck a friendship. “I'm just worried about
what it might do to our friendship.” “I know." Generally, though, this is
just a fear to be overcome. The conversation underlines
how much they care, but the suggestion is
they’d be crazy or cowardly to turn down a shot at
true love, for a lesser connection. “Well, I think it's safe
to say our friendship is effectively ruined.” “Eh, we weren't that close anyway.” The fear of ruining
the friendship also comes up when Monica
is under the impression that Joey has a crush
on Phoebe. “Is it something you'd
be interested in?" “Oh, I don't know, I don't know,
I don't know.” But for Phoey, this is
a legitimate fear. “No, I can't. We're friends. No! Oh, no. I don't want to risk
what we have." Being “just friends”
is often framed as a negative compromise,
when it’s not working out to be more. "I don’t want to be
just friends anymore." The phrase “more than friends”
contains in it our society’s value judgment that
romantic love is more than friend love. “I think he's more
than my friend. You're my boyfriend, right?” But Phoebe and Joey
show us that friendship can also be a conscious
choice and a preferable alternative to dating. A platonic connection
could mean so much to you that you care more about
protecting it than starting an impulsive romance
with that person. And even if male-female
friendships are still the exception rather
than the rule, more of us should
take inspiration from Phoey. Studies have shown that
cross-gender friendship for kids helps them avoid
the pressure to conform to rigid, stereotypical
gender roles. Going back to
When Harry Met Sally, Harry’s stance that men and women
can’t be friends has one big caveat. “No man can be friends
with a woman That he finds attractive." This missing element
of physical attraction explains many other onscreen
male-female friendships that do work so well--
whether the lack of a spark is due to sexual orientation: “I thought it was
my naked body that did nothing for you!” “It didn't! It still doesn't!” obvious incompatibility:
“Ron? What are you doing at a city council meeting? Are you lost? Are you hurt?” Or just not being
each other’s type: “Our relationship is
purely platonic, if Plato had an elderly,
shut-in aunt.” “You know what Plato did have? A gay relationship with Socrates.” “Lemon, the only way
you're like Socrates is you have the body hair
of a Greek man." But what makes Phoebe
and Joey an interesting case study is that they
are attracted to each other on some level. “When I first met you,
you know what I said to Chandler? I said,
‘Excellent butt, great rack.’” “I think that you don't
expect someone so hot to be so sweet.” In season one, Joey falls
head over heels for Phoebe’s identical
twin Ursula, with an intensity he almost
never shows for a woman. “I like her. She's different. There's something about her--” “That you like. We get it. You like her. Great.” This storyline suggests
that the only thing stopping him from
feeling this way about Phoebe is
that she’s too familiar. “Phoebe’s Phoebe. Ursula’s hot.” When Phoebe pretends
to be Ursula, Joey remarks, “You have never looked
so beautiful.” which implies that (when you remove the
considerations holding him back) he finds Phoebe even
more appealing than her twin. “Wow, you look… stop-eatin’-hot!” We also see Phoebe and Joey
kiss multiple times and this is not how most
of us behave with our friends. “That's one thing you
can cross off your list.” “Oh, yeah." Ultimately the show
even hints that --in some buried way--
Phoey are truly in love. "What if I marry Ross? Or Joey?” “You wouldn't." Why, then, don’t they act
on their feelings? “How you doin?" To begin with, their very
closeness itself may put Joey off. The rare times he gets
passionate about a woman, it’s generally because
he can’t have her --as we see from his flings
with Ursula and the actress Kate "When we're on stage,
I get to kiss her and touch her. But then, she goes home
with the director and it's like somebody's
ripping out my heart." He considers both
of the other women in their friend-group
as romantic partners, but note the timing:
he dreams about Monica when she’s in a secure
intimate partnership with Chandler, and he falls
for Rachel when she’s pregnant with Ross’ baby. His mind will allow him
to see them in this light only when they’re unavailable
due to an emotional tie to one of his closest male friends. “There's this woman that
I like a lot. But, uh, it can't happen” Meanwhile, he never seriously
entertains going for it with Phoebe -- and maybe that’s
precisely because there’s A good chance she’d be willing
to give it a shot. “Crushes happen all the time. I've had them for all you guys. Except for Ross and Chandler” Joey is a notorious ladies’ man, “How you doin’?” but he seems to place women
he really cares about in an idealized,
desexualized category. His Catholic upbringing,
and a childhood surrounded by sisters he felt a
duty to protect, have given him an internalized
madonna/whore complex-- which splits his affection
from his sexual feelings. He doesn’t attach feelings
to the women he wants to sleep with, while he views female friends
and family members as higher beings, too good for sex. “You can't be pregnant. Because... you have to have sex to get pregnant.” When the friends bring home
Ursula’s porn video believing it stars Phoebe,
Joey is adamant that seeing his friend this way
would be the ultimate disrespect. “This is wrong, you guys! Phoebe's our friend! I'm not gonna watch it.” So we shouldn’t be surprised that
-- at the end of the series -- he’s the only friend who
hasn’t found a committed, long-term relationship that integrates
both love and desire. “We'd have an apartment
over the garage where Joey could grow old." We see similar behaviors
in another TV ladies’ man-- Mad Men’s Don Draper. For him, sex and
emotional connection are also very much an either/or--
and just like with Phoebe and Joey, Don’s refusal to cross
a physical line with his mentee Peggy is
framed as proof of his deep love
and respect for her. “It's not because
you aren't attractive. I have to keep rules
about work. I have to." The biggest reason that
Phoebe and Joey never sleep together, though,
is more inspirational. They choose their friendship
over a potential love affair. This is made explicit
when Ursula is blowing Joey off, and Phoebe pretends to
be her twin to let him down gently: "Then yeah, it's 'cause of Phoebe. So you know, it's
either her or me.” “Then, uh, then I'm sorry.” Joey has no doubts about
picking his friend over the hot lover who
looks just like her. And he stands by this
friendship-first principle, as we see when
his girlfriend Janine hates Monica and Chandler. “If you guys are gonna
be fighting all the time, I don't think
we can be together. It just can't work, okay? It can't.” and when he decides
that he and Rachel don’t work as a couple
they’re too good as friends. "Well, how come Monica
and Chandler could do it?" "I guess they weren't
as good friends as we are." What’s great about
Phoebe and Joey together is that their lack of
a sexual relationship never feels like a loss. They embody the
romance of friendship-- a theme that’s at
the heart of this show. Phoey do things usually
reserved for romance like have date nights. “I have dinner plans with Joey. We get together about once a month to discuss
the rest of you guys." And think about the future. “If neither of you
are married by 40, you're gonna marry Joey?” “Yep. We shook on it. But believe me,
that is not how he wanted to
seal the deal.” When Phoebe is pregnant,
and Joey goes vegetarian to balance out
her meat cravings, “No extra animals would die. You'd be eating my animals.” “Joey, I can't believe
you'd do that for me.” he’s acting like a spouse
who wants to support his wife. And when Joey fails to see
that their “friend dates” should be treated
with the same respect as regular ones, “You can cancel plans
with friends if there's a possibility
for sex.” An outraged Phoebe
makes him see why this is so important. “When we make plans,
I expect you to show up. I can't just be a way
to kill time till you meet someone better.” It’s also symbolic
that while Joey isn’t interested in dating
Phoebe himself, he sets her up with
her future husband Mike. He’s also the one to
officiate her wedding. “I hope you know how
much you mean to me.” So Joey is responsible
for bringing a true romantic love into Phoebe’s life. As friends who are
attracted but don’t date, Phoey are a seriously
rare specimen in Film & TV (so you can see why Harry
thought he had a point). One of the few other
believable examples can be found in another
popular 90s sitcom. Seinfeld’s Jerry and Elaine
have dated in the past, but they legitimately found
they like each other more as friends. "Your standards are too high." I went out with you." "That’s because my
standards are too low." Despite the scarcity
of Phoey-like couples, many of the best
(completely non-sexual) male-female friendships
onscreen are also unconventional love stories
about platonic soulmates. It’s refreshing to watch
two people who truly adore each other and want to
spend time together without it being about sex. “Why would anybody ever eat
anything besides breakfast food?” “People are idiots, Leslie." And the nuance to
the way these pairs defy traditional categorization
reflects the wide range of relationships that
exist in real life. “Obviously, our relationship,
however you define it, Mentor/mentee--"
"Sister-ployee/work oracle--” “--Is more interesting
than some dating scenario. And obviously, to ruin
what we have with a tawdry, yet expert sexual encounter
would've been a mistake.” Matt LeBlanc revealed
that he and Lisa Kudrow actually pitched the idea
that their characters had been friends with
benefits all along, but the show creators
weren’t interested. “You think we should hook up?” “Oh, we do. But not just yet.” Keeping Phoebe and Joey as
-- not “just friends” but purely friends --
was a conscious choice that validated the show’s
central thesis: that friends are the
true loves of our lives. “I’ve always felt
that you and I have a special bond.” The other four main characters
showcase why it's amazing to be in a relationship
that’s built on friendship, but Phoey are the important
flipside of that. A man and a woman
can be soulmates without being lovers,
and this friendship plays a crucial, permanent
role in their lives. “None of you will get
to live with me in my hand-shaped mansion. Except you Pheebs, you can live in the thumb.” In the end, these two
not getting together is what saves Friends from
dividing its central six into three neat pairs, and
ultimately reinforcing the cliché that friendship
is no more than a transitional stage on the road to marriage. So while Phoey (or Joebe) shippers
might pine for what could have been, the truth is all
along this really was the central, defining
love story of the show. “Boyfriends and girlfriends are gonna
come and go, but this is for life.” Or use promo code "THETAKE"
to 10% off an annual subscription. 