Dream of me! Hey all, this is Dreamcatcher JI U! Guys, can you guess What we're filming today? Today... I filmed with SU A Can you guess what we're shooting today~? Take a guess! LOLOL Then~ While you guys are at it I'll go and shoot my scene! It works! Herrro It's YOOHYEON! Can you guys guess where we're at? We're at! A film studio! Now... we're going to Film an interview ....interview! I'm sorry lol Mobile game(!) My mistake.. Fancy! Gun action! Oh I'm so sorry.. Immersive stor Hey all It's YOOHYEON again In the middle of shooting our music video (!) I have a bit of free time in between With my camera I really enjoy taking pictures So I'm bringing my camera to shoot some pictures of our members GAHYEON~ Oh wait, I think DAMI didn't appear yet Hey, DAMI? It's your first time in front of this camera right? Yes... haha See, I have to take care of her!! If you want to film me Bring me some luxury (?) Oh, luxury?! You sure? Hold on(?) Would this be enough? Performance fee Not enough Cause I have this much I need to get things like this on camera What is it that GAHYEON is holding? So cuteeee GAHYEON, do you want to take this (self-cam) with you? Smooth move, YOOHYEON Is this on focus right now? (nope) I'm not even mov.. Oh, it works now! SU A unnie is here What's that? It hurts.. :( What's up? (Just filmed with her hands tied to a chain) So intense..! If I had to act that scene out, I would've sucked Pretending to be so innocent lol You would've rocked it..! I screamed while filming that (scene) Just what you imagine A sound like this needs to come out but Hilarious.. I'll be back after touching up my hair Normally, I could see what unnies are shooting when we shoot for our other music videos.. But this time.. We all shoot separately, so I couldn't see any So I went out to see them shooting whenever I got the chance.. Imma go out right now too I'll be back Hey everyone! We're~! Giving it all To this music video shoot So please look forward to it! I had a good night's sleep yesterday So I'm doing so well today! The role I'm playing this time (No Spoiler) Mys character has an odd eye If you look, my eye colors are different (No Spoiler) To understand the role better I gave this much effort! Just wanted to let you guys know I'll try my best until the end 