We have all long awaited this moment. All the jokes, all the goofs, all the gaffs over the years led us here The "Hila, are you pregnant?", The "Hila, are you having a baby?" "When are you guys having a baby?" Well, the jokes stop now because the baby time is upon us and Hila is so pregnant It's ridiculous. She's like a Papa John pizza pie that's been the oven way too long and needs to come out. Hila: mm-hmm When is your due date? June 6th Yes, which is basically like two weeks away at this point Aaaaand, She can give birth at any second. She could be giving birth right now! RIGHT NOW! She could be giving birth. Right Now! I shouldn't even scare you. I shouldn't even talk loudly cause I feel like your water may break. Yeah, I'm feeling contractions and... it's been heavy but now it feels like Real heavy. (Ethan: Mm-hmm)
Hila: He's making his way down there down there. Ethan: Hila's got diapers, okay? That she's gotta pack and don't think I'm outing her. She told me I could talk about the diapers because it's hilarious. Hila: Yeah I don't care, I mean, there's
gonna be bleeding, Ethan: Bleeding... 
Hila: So you're gonna need a diaper. Ethan: There's gonna be pooping. Yeah, some girls can't handle that. I don't care You know, you're gonna poop when you give birth 'cuz you're pushing you're pushing you're gonna shit Hopefully not on the baby, but that happens probably too. Hila: Yeah Ethan: Well, uh, the baby is above the poop The poop comes below the baby. Hila: Right. Ethan: So the chances...
Hila: ...and there's like five people there to... Ethan: *grabbing noise* They Ethan: pick it up quick
Hila: To take care of the baby and take care of the poop I'm just say- what my point being guys is that it's a whole wild thing. And we are strapping up for the inevitable And also I want to say that Hila is so radiant and so beautiful her hair is on point Her eyes are shimmering her smile is bright as the heavens above, her skin is like Ethan: as if she had
Hila: okay, okay Facetune on! But she doesn't. This is all natural, baby! Well I had to even it out 'cuz I'm talking about you shitting yourself, wearing a diaper Feel like I had to even it out. 
Hila: You're not going through anything. 
Ethan: Yeah Hila: So I don't care. Okay, maybe you'll see some poop. 
Ethan: You're--what you're saying in other words is "Bitch, smell my poop"
Hila: (laughing) yeah Hila's been having indigestion, there's something she's never experienced before She's peeing every two seconds because there's no sp- there's literally no space I mean it's even hard to breathe sometimes 'cuz there's no space I feel like Hila's getting to walk a day in a fat guy's shoes Finally us fat guys are getting representation. 
Hila: It's awful. Yeah, my pain is self-inflicted unfortunately But guys I get the feeling that you listening right now, don't even believe what I'm saying and so first of all, I would like to present to you our very last Fupa update shot comparison Uh, this is getting totally nuts. Are you ready? 
Hila: Mm-hmm. All right. Let's do this. The champion appears in the corner in the purple shirt Ethan Klein. Fupalicious, looking bold, bold, and beautiful the Challenger approaches. Oh God You still look huge. You're definitely the winning and there's for sure but somehow I'm still holding my own against you. Hila: I don't know that I'm winning... (laughter) Whoaaaaaaaaa *coughs* Holy shit This is like a fishbowl Hila: So there is a living creature here right now. 
Ethan: Oh, let's show the newest ultrasound. You can see his face We did this like two weeks ago. Look at his cu- even his face already looks cute He's got like a chubby face you can already tell. It's freaking adorable Hila: It's starting to feel so big that I gotta walk like and like carry my stomach. *Ethan giggles* Look, this baby is like a cat 5 hurricane and the- and we're right dead center in its path Okay, this baby is like a hot pocket that was in the microwave way too long, and when you take a bite your mouth is Basically destroyed for the next month. That's our lives. This is the mouth that's been destroyed by a hot pocket. Hila: This is the baby room Ethan: woooow. What the heck is that? 
Hila: He's already got a Spider-Man outfit. I did not approve of this. But it was a gift from Youtube actually. 
Ethan: who presented it to us? Hila: Susan. Ethan: WHOAA HOOO, now that's respect Hila: So, I can't--now I gotta accept it. Hila: He is spider-man
Ethan: He is spider-man Hila: our merch Represent people. 
Ethan: always be plugging Always be plugging *Ethan yells* Always be plugging, dude! Hila: Um.. he--he already got shoes from Adidas Ethan: Dude Adidas sent us some. Are those like exclusive or what? Hila: Nah. Ethan: Oh, those are not, okay, alright, well... Of course and who could forget? Does this turn you on at all? Should I be wearing this after birth too? Ethan: (in another room) Hila! Hila: What? Ethan: I'm trying to help you out but these things don't seem to be working I don't know if this product is faulty or what Hila: What are you doing?? Ethan: I'm trying to- I'm trying to produce some milk ahead of time So to help you out 'cuz I'm jus - I'm just feel so bad that I can't help you more Hila: I don't think it works like that Ethan: I think the product's messed up because there's no milk coming out of my breast Hila: *laughing* oh my god Ethan: Well, Hila *laughing* Hila if you can give me some privacy I'm just gonna try this for another hour or so and see if I can produce any milk for you Hila: Does it hurt? Ethan: No, it doesn't actually, it's kind of relaxing honestly. I could just kinda meditate honestly make a ASMR. Put on some ASMR Call it a day Dude, this is so surreal. You're like a milk factory, bro. 
Hila: I know. You're like.. straight up ... got some life-giving breasts, dude. Look at this you're dual wielding milk cups for Theodore. Okay, something big is about to happen maybe you guys should join us for this journey. I am about to attempt To install a baby seat in our car. many people said "Ethan, it can't be done. Not by you." Dude look at this. Like a spaceship, look at all these buttons. How many freaking buttons are there dude Haters beware We're out here putting in baby seats Haters said it couldn't be done Haters said it couldn't be done *struggling* C'mon baby, we got this. We got this. We got this. All you hater ass bitches C'mon you bitch Come on come on Come on Hila: seems like labor Ethan: Yeah, exactly Okay, don't ever say that I didn't go through labor myself, Hila It's insensitive. 
Hila: you should dedicated this to all the dads This is dedicated to all the dads out there who know what true labor feels like. installing a baby seat is true labor Here we go, baby, here we go. it's time to push! Push! PUSH! P U S H ! *heavy breathing* *loud click* *Ethan yells excitedly* NO! Did you hear that sound? Hila: I did All the handymen are crying right now because they know Because they know a real man was just born *click* (Hila) I heard something I hope I installed it right *Hila laughs* I did. I definitely did. I was hearing the clicks, I was twirling, I was bopping bro, yeah. Hila: Isn't it scary now? Everything is like - there is so much on it. *Ethan sighs* The baby's life depends on me 
Hila: yeah to install that car seat right *laughs* No, I did it right. Shredder's already getting jealous *Car door slams* C'mere. You'll always be my first born. You'll always be my first born. Ethan: awwww Both Ethan and Hila: Awwww You'll always be my first born, Shreddy. You love the camera don't you? He smudged it. Can you see? Did you smudge the camera? Thank you Hila: The sweat is real. Ethan: That's all natural baby that's glistening dad sweat. that came through a fairly thick shirt as well. 
Hila: Yeah I was just - 
Hila: on a cold day, too. 
Ethan: Oh, yeah, it's not warm. I was just sending my family a picture of the uh Car seat to let him know it's official. *Woooh* All right. Dad mode is engaged. I am ready to go I got my first dad sweat marks my first dad seat installed I had my first breast pumping So in short we just wanted to make this video to explain why any day now, we may just disappear for a month or two months Uh, It's because we had a baby. Hopefully I'm still alive. Oh, come on, let's--come on Of course, you'll be alive. The baby's gonna be beautiful and healthy You're gonna be alive and vibrant even though you may probably have shit yourself. I'll keep you guys updated about that yeah, I can't wait to tell you guys all about how It went. I'm gonna be filming it. I'll be filming the baby coming out. I'll be filming you shitting on yourself. It's gonna be fantastic. hopefully your asshole and vagina being torn into one hole I'll be able to capture on film. I could see that on trending. Cmon. Fantastic. It's life-bearing dude. This is this is trending material I can't wait to get back and start my family vlogs We're gonna be posting daily vlogs starting with the second that Theodore's head comes shooting out of your vagina That's the moment that our daily vlogs will start. Do you have any parting words for the for the people? Hila: umm I'm just nervous and excited and just like a million things.
Ethan: Mm-hm. I just want to get it over with.
Ethan: Yeah I know *laughs* I just want to do it already.
Ethan: Yeah... Ethan: Yeah I'm excited.
Hila: It's scary It's it's so crazy. The whole concept of having a kid is so trippy and so weird and wild. You have a friend who recommended to put almond oil on your vagina to help loosen it up. Have you been doing that? N- no I have not. So women out there, you can start now. Start applying almond oil to loosen up your vagina Uhhh You know we got all the tips. How are your nipples? uhm Fine. Bigger. Ethan: Huge, dude! But are they sensitive?
Hila: No. Ethan: They're like little handle bars. 
Hila: *laughs* That doesn't sound very attractive. But they're I mean, they're beautiful life-giving nipples, dude, they're like two little handle bars, dude, seriously Crazy man... Hila: I don't like that image.
Ethan: For real... Just a couple of kids to having a kid We're still a couple kids. That's the problem about being a parent. Hila: It's pretty crazy to have it all ... umm ... documented on our channel Ethan: Right Hila: From when we just first started making videos. Being broke and in college to now being- becoming Ethan: Rich!
Hila: Parents. Ethan: Oh, That's where you're going (sarcastically) yeah "parents." But I mean it's pretty cool to share the experience with everyone. Ethan: of course, Hila. Of course no it's a magical and Theodore can one day look back on all of this and be like, wow, my parents were mental.
Hila: that's weird. They are psycho Hila:That's gonna be weird.
Ethan: *laughs* yeaaaah. Ethan: Super weird. Well, that's his problem. Not ours. I can't wait to bring you updates where I- I'm honestly so excited. I already have so much love in my heart for this little shrimp, and I haven't even met him So we'll see Here we go, guys. Alright I'll talk to you soon. All right, love y'all 