This video has been brought to you by NordVPN. The best VPN available. Head over to nordvpn.com/DOMICS and use the code "DOMICS" to save 77% off a year plan A few months ago I decided to get an office studio work in so I have a place for my soon to be local animator team Also I realized how hard it was to work at home, because it got way to comfy at times Especially when I had my bed litteraly two feet away from my desk I'll be with you soon my love ♥ As some of you may have noticed over the years I got additional help on my animations from my friends Jomm, Shho and Ehlboy Person: "Wait a minute Dom, you're hear to tell me that to don't animate your videos all by yourself?" Well.. yeah of course. I wanted to try getting out videos more often, minus this past month because I was helping with setting up the gaming cafè So I thought I get even more help to take on some of the load Person: "Well that's lame. Too important to do  everything yourself now, huh?" Hehh? Well I still write the scripts myself And do the voiceovers I still animate the scenes, but not the majority of it? I'm sorry to shatter your vision of me? Person : Yeah but, this other animator does everything by themself Ok... but how often do they post? Stranger: Once every four or five months Huh! That's pretty scarce! But understandable given the time and effort it takes to create a coherent animation by themselves Person: Yeah, I get that, but I wished they posted more often... (This Boi did not just said that) Anyway...yeah, I wanted more aid on the videos I was cool with my three friends from California helping me out, but sometimes the workload proved to be a lot for us. I also thought it'd be nice to be physically around the other people working on the same project (creepy dom) I've usually just been cooped up in my room, and I gotta admit, it was lonely at times. (The Struggles of being a youtube animator) So I got an office, Made a post I was hiring locally, hired some people And realized I needed to get more equipment for them to work with I  currently work on a CINTIQ 13 HD as my main tablet- -and thought, "That's probably more than enough for the others." So I decided to check if anyone was selling any used cintiqs on Facebook Marketplace and my favorite "Your junk, my jewel" platform, kijiji! The Canadian Craigslist alternative Person: [in very annoying voice] Wow Dom, why are you being cheap? Why don't you just buy a new one? Surely you could afford it with your millions of dollars!( Kids Now a days) Well, surely I can afford to also save some money when I can, right? The tablets are used but they work just fine And my animators don't mind, right guys? [awkward silence] I managed to find four that were available, but they were all spread out around the Toronto area. One was a 5 minute drive down the street where I  live. Another, was in Downtown Toronto, Another, was at Seneca College. The last one, wanted to meet at a Starbucks that was about 15 minutes away. I asked when they were available at their earliest convenience Downtown person was available the next day, So I went and scooped it up on Friday. The rest were free the day after. The thing was, I had a dentist appointment Saturday morning, which was a 40-minute drive away. don't ask why it's so far. And then I also scheduled the animators to come in later, at 1:00 PM. But it kinda worked out because I could drive to Seneca College, and one of the other sellers on the way back to the office. Now the Starbucks dude, was a bit more complicated ;-; Here's how THAT conversation went. ^Hello! Is this still available? [low starbucks voice] hI dOMinIC, yES thIS iS stILL availAbLE iF yoU'rE inTEResTEd I am! When is your soonest convenient time to meet? And is cash okay? I am away, but my daughter can meet at a Starbucks after 2:00 [PM] tomorrow. Are you close to the- -Starbucks at [beep] and [beep]? Let me know and I'll sort out the details on our side. Cash is fine. Sure, I can stop by after 2, I'm not too far from there. Alright! After 2 should be doable! I agreed to this because I needed to make sure I was at the office before 1, to let my team in And then I could just head out real quick to pick up the tablet I didn't get an update until Saturday morning (wow ._.) GREAT! She will be there at 2:00! *ಠ_ಠ WTF THIS BOI SAID* OK So, I didn't know AFTER 2 mean AT 2 But I thought it'd likely wouldn't be a problem I kinda got lost around the Seneca campus Because the girl's directions were a bit confusing And so thay meeting got a little delayed since we had trouble looking for each other Because THAT was late, I got to the other seller later than I wanted Which meant I also got to the office later than I wanted (the people are dying) Once i did i still needed sometime to set things up for my animators And knew i coudn't make it for 2:00 didn't get a replay for twenty minutes Here's the thing If you don't want to disclose your personol infomation to a stranger, I get that, That's Fair but it would be also fair if you atleast promptly Captions By: joshuaktanki 