- This video is brought to you by Fiverr, connecting you with the
freelancers you need to help you build your brand, including logo designers,
voice over artists, website developers and more. So be sure to hit that
link in the description, which will take you to
my personalized store with nothing but my
favorite top Fiverr sellers that I personally am super excited to use. All right, so today we're
comparing two cameras. One from this iPhone 11 Pro Max and one which is this Black
Magic Pocket Cinema Camera 6K. Now, I've done a bunch of these wacky comparisons in the past where I compare iPhone to something really ridiculously expensive like that Red or an Arri Alexa. But, what's interesting about this is the price is not too
different from each other. Okay, maybe this is actually
quite a bit more expensive, but what's interesting is
there is a 4K version of this, which is very similar and
really, really powerful and it's actually less
than the price of this iPhone 11 Pro Max. So it's not really about
comparing an expensive camera to a cheap camera anymore, it's more about comparing
a convenient smart camera to a fully manual powerful camera. By the way, we probably
have the dopest giveaway we've had on this channel
by far in today's video, so stick around for that. But let's kick this video off by showing you some of the
footage out of these cameras. Now if I were to show you these two cameras side by side, it's actually kind of
obvious which one's which, but it becomes a lot trickier if I show them to you one at a time. So what I'm gonna do is show you a clip, you guys try to guess which one it is. Here we go. (upbeat music) All right so, let me know. I'm so curious how did you guys do? Take that poll. Did you get all of them right? Most of them right, some of them right or like none of them right? Now let's start off by talking about how impressive this iPhone 11 Pro Max is. It's a phone. Well, no one really uses
it as a phone anymore. This notepad app is probably
what I use the most. Like these are my bullet points of what I need to talk
about in this video. Next I'm supposed to talk about how impressive the HDR on this camera is! It's super impressive when there's a super bright part of
the frame, like the sky. It takes a lot of the orange in the skies and recovers that and
actually looks like the iPhone has more dynamic range
than the Black Magic. This is exactly what I mean
by how smart this camera is. It's very software-driven. Cinema cameras like this, it literally just captures
whatever hits the censor and doesn't try to analyze it or do some weird, smart voodoo magic. And the ultra wide lens on
this phone is ultra wide and I've been having trouble trying to find a lens wide enough so I can match this camera to here. And I have a pretty fat lens collection. Like, look at all these lenses, and none of them were wide enough! So I actually had to go out and buy this ultra wide angle lens. This is 8 to 15 millimeter. Super wide, so that I can get
this to match this wide angle. And here's the thing: even with this ultra wide angle lens, there's no image stabilization
built into the lens or the camera. So as I'm walking around
handheld like this, there's quite a bit of shake and to remove that, I'm gonna have to either get like a proper shoulder rig and make this a little bit bigger and give me three points of contact or something like a Steadicam or a gimbal. But again, the phone
utilizes that smartness to stabilize the footage electronically. Two out of the four lenses have image stabilization in the lens, but all of them are
electronically stabilized. And this is all stuff that happens just completely behind the scenes, right? So, you buy the phone,
you turn on the camera and it's doing all of this stuff without you even knowing. You look at the footage side by side and it's very clearer that the iPhone just looks so much smoother. But the way they were mounted together, they both pretty much had the
same amount of camera shake. There's a lot of lenses
I could put on here that has image stabilization, but I can still tell you, it doesn't even come close to being as smooth as what this will give you. The phone can do 120 frames
per second no problem. The Black Magic has to do a
serious crop into the censor. So even with a 18 millimeter
lens on the Black Magic, it still looks way, way cropped. Anyways, I think this is
just about enough footage of watching some grown ass men play in a children's playground. And if I set the iPhone to
the ultra wide angle lens, it's just so much wider! So that's kind of why I felt the need to pick up this into 15 millimeters. This is pretty much a
(gasps) fish eye lens. Another benefit of the phone, it's actually pretty durable. I've already dropped it a couple of times. But, I don't think this
would survive any drops. On my iPhone, I'm shooting
4K, 24 frames per second and the strong lens is definitely solid. You can literally count the number of hairs on Frank's beard. You literally see the speckles of sand and every snowflake that's fallen down. But, when you put it next to the Black Magic Pocket Cinema Camera, you start to see the difference between kind of artificially
digitally sharpened images versus something that
was actually captured at a super sharp, high resolution. The iPhone does a good
job at enhancing the image out of this tiny camera and tiny censor, but in my opinion at least, it just never looks as
good as the real thing. Since the Black Magic
is recording at 6K raw, it doesn't have to do any sort of those digital enhancements. It just has hardware powerful enough to capture everything, making
everything look really true and organic and beautiful. So even though the iPhone does give you a very sharp looking image that looks crystal clear, the Black Magic does a much better job of showing you what's actually there. You know, looking at some of the shots, if we zoom way into the waterfall, there's so much detail in pretty much every quarter of the shot. And if we look way in the
background of these trees, you can kind of see that
the iPhone processor is trying to enhance it, and everything kind of
starts to look muddy and mushed together on the iPhone, but on the Black Magic, everything is still nice and well-defined. Same with the snow. If you look at the iPhone footage of it, you might be like whoa, you can see the snowflakes falling! But then, when you put it
next to the Black Magic, you realize, whoa, there's actually 10 times more snow falling that you couldn't see on the iPhone. I'm definitely not an
engineer or software developer or anything like that. I have an IQ of like four, but what I do know is typically, when you have a small
censoring camera like this, you end up with an image
with quite a bit of noise. So, a lot of modern cameras now are de-noising the image in camera. Which is cool because
now you have less noise, but there's a lot of estimations that go on in that process and when you overdo it, the image can start looking blurry. So from there, to make
it look sharp again, you have to go in and resharpen everything kind of digitally. And a lot of times, you
digitally sharpen something and it can look better, but I see it as kind of like tracing an image with a sharpie. This one is blue, I don't
want this (beep) blue. I have all these sharpies and I don't have a single black sharpie. This makes no sense, guys. I've got like a value pack of sharpies and they only gave me
like one black sharpie, which of course, I lost. That's why I got the value pack, so I'd never run out of sharpies. But, okay. (banging) Oh, look at that, it stuck! And the resharpening process
is kind of just going through and like tracing it with
thicker lines like that. So there, now Mr. Happypants looks sharper than he did earlier, but it's not like it actually
made the image sharper, I just kind of went over and traced over what was already there. And like I said, I'm not an
Apple developer or anything, so I could be way off, but this is kind of my educated guess on how this all works. But that would make sense, because when we get
into low-light footage, low-light means more noise, which means more de-noising, which ultimately gives
us a very blurry image, so when we put the two cameras
side-by-side in low-light, the iPhone gets crushed. The Black Magic does start
to introduce some grain, but the censor is capable enough to where it still looks pretty dang good. The phone's, on the other hand, sure, you can see what's
going on, which is awesome, but a lot of the detail
gets lost in low-light. Now even though the Black Magic doesn't have smart HDR
like this phone does, it does have a lot of dynamic range. So you can take the raw
footage out of this camera and you could essentially make it look like an HDR shot, but you have so much control of how you want the footage to look. Of course to get the best results, you're gonna wanna hit that
link in the description and buy my LUTs that I made
specifically for Black Magic. Why in the world would
you color grade yourself when you could just buy
my LUTs and give me money? So in the end, with the Black Magic, you will end up with a better shot, but it just takes a little bit more work opposed to a phone that just does it all, literally, without you even knowing. But just like with every smart features, it's not always 100% accurate. Sometimes it will flatten things out where you didn't want it to flatten out. And finally, of course,
we get depth of field with a proper cinema camera like this. In other words, blurry backgrounds. We love that stuff because
we tell the audience hey, look here. Gotta admit the portrait
mode on these phones, they've done a killer job of making it look like it was taken on a professional camera. But I'd be curious if they could apply that technology into video. But the beauty is that
these cinema cameras are becoming more and more affordable. Like I said, the 4K version of this camera is a beast and again, it's less than what I
paid for this iPhone. And that brings us to our giveaway. We are giving away a Black
Magic Pocket Cinema Camera 4K to one of you guys. All you gotta be doing is following me and Kondor Blue on Instagram. And when you see this photo pop up on their Instagram page, make sure you like it and
then boom, you're entered. So shout out to Kondor Blue
for giving away that camera. That's a hot item right now. They make a whole bunch
of camera accessories, so it's definitely
worth checking them out. Like this arm, which you
use to mount like a monitor or any sort of accessory. But I love that they have
this little hole right here so that you can take a little
Allen wrench or something and stick it through it and
just really crank it down so that it doesn't come loose, 'cause I hate it when you mount a monitor onto a rig and it just bloop, so, tightening it down with
that extra twerk is awesome. They've got quick release plates, so you can mount this to your monitor and it can just clip onto it like that, instead of taking your monitor, you know, and just like spinning it around with all the cables wrapping around. And this is my favorite right here, this is just a handlebar that attaches to a Rosette. So you could attach this onto
a cage or a shoulder rig. You could extend it out
to where you want it. And there's a button right here to adjust your angle. Oh, I mean, this is so simple, but why haven't I seen this before? This is awesome, ho-ho, look at that! I love it! So good luck to everyone's who entering. I don't know, maybe if you sweet talk them they'll send you a rig, along with the Black Magic. Anyways, let's wrap this up by reading a few comments
from my last video, which was all about the Zhiyun Weebill S, currently one of my
favorite gimbals to use with my EOS R. Basically every comment here is about the giveaway, because we did do a
giveaway in that video too. So congrats to the winner right there for winning a gimbal. Every single comment starts off with Gene, "does anyone want it?" Me, "hell yeah." Gene, "does anyone want it?" Me, "I must have it." Gene, "does anyone want it?" Me, "I need it." Like, what is going on? Have you guys all turned into clones? Every single comments starts off like, am I missing something? (ticking) Finally, we got one comment that doesn't start with
Gene, "does anyone want it?" Does anyone notice how he
says Zhuiyn instead of Zhiyun? Okay, to clarify, that
is how you say Zhiyun. - This is the correct
pronunciation for Zhiyun. - Now you know. (upbeat gentle hiphop) 