This episode is brought to you by CuriosityStream. Use our link in the description below for
a 30 day trial giving you unlimited access to thousands of documentaries and non­-fiction
titles from some of the world's best filmmakers when you use the code “infographics”! Over several decades something quite bizarre
has been happening over an area in the western United States, an area that encompasses the
highly secretive military base known as Area 51. There have been over 2000 tragic incidents
involving planes, some of which just vanished into thin air. In fact, more weirdness has been going down
in this place called the Nevada Triangle than has in the famed Bermuda Triangle. It might sound like something from the Twilight
Zone, but trust us, strange things have been happening and they have been well-documented. Let’s investigate. First, where exactly is the Nevada Triangle? Yep, it’s partly in Nevada, but it also
covers parts of California. If you look on a map imagine drawing a triangle
with the northern point at Reno. Then draw a straight line down to Fresno and
go forward until you reach Arizona. Inside the triangle is the infamous city of
Las Vegas. The aptly named for this show Death Valley
National park is also there, as is Area 51. There’s a whole lot of wilderness inside
the triangle, with large parts of it being desert and mountains. There have been a fair few bodies that have
ended up in this gigantic wilderness, as well as plane wreckages. That’s why some people call it the, “graveyard
for planes.” Why so many planes just can’t seem to get
through this area has been speculated over for a long time. The accidents aren’t made up. There really have been a very unusual number
of strange tragedies, and if you take it that 2000 planes have gone missing over 60 years,
then that works out at around three a month. Yep, that’s pretty insane and we intend
to find out why. Maybe one of the most well-known casualties
of the Nevada Triangle was a man named Steve Fossett. Mr. Fossett was a very successful businessman
but is better known for breaking lots of records in boats and planes. He became the first man ever to circumnavigate
the globe in a balloon and in a fixed-wing aircraft. Needless to say, Steve knew his stuff. In fact, it would be harder to find a more
skilled pilot. We could mention all of his successes and
records, but that’s an episode in itself. We will say that as well as flying and breaking
records at the same time, he also climbed some of the world’s highest peaks, competed
in car races, and when that didn’t provide enough excitement, he ran ultramarathons through
mountains and did the odd iron man. But Steve didn’t get through the Nevada
Triangle. On September third, 2007, at around 8.45 in
the morning, he got in a single-engine Super Decathlon light aircraft at a private airfield
in Nevada. We don’t really know why he went flying,
but some people have theorized that he was either going for the fun of it or scouting
locations. He didn’t submit a fight plan, but there
was nothing especially weird about that. What is weird, is that Steve never make it
back that day. His plane vanished. It was fitted with something called an emergency
locator transmitter, which, in the event of trouble, should send a signal out. But that didn’t happen, though the transmitters
are known to malfunction on occasion. Or maybe that’s just what THEY want you
to believe. A huge search covering thousands of square
miles ensued, but given that it was thought he went down in the mountains, this search
was incredibly difficult. The search crews consisted of many people,
and while Steve didn’t turn up they actually found the wreckages of another eight missing
planes. Since they just couldn’t find Steve or his
plane, leading technology companies got in on the act by taking images of the area. Believe it or not, even psychics reached out
and said perhaps they could help. Spoiler alert: they couldn’t. If Steve had gone down, given his remarkable
survival skills maybe he could have lasted out in that cold wilderness, but as time passed
people gave up hope. After more than two weeks the searches were
called off and Steve was presumed dead. They started again, and then were called off
again. It was said to be the most complex search
in modern U.S. history, but it didn’t pay off. Almost exactly a year later a hiker found
some documents in the Eastern Sierra Nevada and those documents turned out to belong to
Steve. They were found about 65 miles (100km) from
where he had taken off. A search resumed and it was discovered that
the crash site was on a mountain ridge in a place called the Ansel Adams Wilderness. Steve hadn’t mysteriously disappeared off
the face of the planet as some people had said. Parts of the plane were found, but where was
Steve, or what was left of him? Well, not long after and some bones were found
and they were identified as Steve, while a pair of tennis shoes with animal bites on
them were also found. It was assumed he’d likely died on impact
and then wild animals had dragged parts of his body away over a period of time. The National Transportation Safety Board later
issued a statement regarding the cause of the crash. It said the reason was likely, “The pilot's
inadvertent encounter with downdrafts that exceeded the climb capability of the airplane. Contributing to the accident were the downdrafts,
high density altitude, and mountainous terrain.” So, that’s arguably the most famous case
of death in the Nevada Triangle. Bigger planes have gone missing, too. One of the better known tragedies was in 1969
and involved a plane nicknamed “The Gambler’s Special” because it often carried folks
who liked to bet in the Nevada casinos. That plane hit a cliff, slid down into the
snow, and all 35 people on board died. It seems the pilot took a different route
and that didn’t turn out well. Again, getting to the wreckage was incredibly
difficult. We’ll give you a feel-good story now about
a man named David Steeves. Steeves was an Air Force Lieutenant and was
flying a training jet when things took a turn for the worse and he had to eject from the
plane. The man was in the middle of nowhere and while
a massive search happened they couldn’t find him. It was presumed he must have died, although
they didn’t find the plane. With broken ankles and in the freezing cold
he crawled for 20 miles over mountains that were later called “impassable.” The crawl took him 15 days and he had no food
or shelter. How he survived is a miracle. Thankfully, he eventually crawled to an empty
cabin and got his hands on some canned ham and some fishing hooks. With the state of his body he couldn’t go
anywhere, but he at least got some food. While he was hanging out in the cabin his
friends and family mourned him, but after 52 days some hikers came across David… and
this story would have a happy ending if David didn’t die in an air crash eight years later. Even well trained pilots have come undone
in this area countless times and in some instances no wreckage or bodies were found. That’s may not sound too surprising, given
the Nevada Triangle’s inhospitable terrain, but this hasn’t stopped some conspiracy
theorists speculating that stranger things are at work and some of those missing planes
might be linked to secret U.S. military skullduggery, Area 51, and even aliens. But let’s stay on Earth for the time-being
and look at something called “Mountain Waves.” No, these aren’t ocean waves somehow lapping
up against the tops of mountains, but fast-moving winds that happen at a mountain side and create
oscillations of air above the mountain. If one occurs while a plane happens to be
flying over, it might suddenly get carried on the wind, and in some cases lose control,
similar to a boat being carried on a wave and dumped on the other side. That’s fine for surfers in the ocean for
surfers, it’s less good for an airplane pilot being thrown over a mountain into the
rocks below. Weather over the mountains is often unpredictable,
and besides mountain waves you also get things called downdrafts that spoil a pilot’s otherwise
peaceful day. One expert explained on a Nevada radio station,
“It’s quite easy for a small plane to get caught in the downdraft on the downwind
side and not have the power or just the capability to get out of the way of that.” These can create microbursts of wind and can
send a plane out of control. Maybe the most famous incident of a microburst
taking a plane out was in 1985 when Delta Flight 191 crashed. 137 people died and 28 others were injured. Professor Kelly Redmond, a climatologist with
the Desert Research Institute in Reno, talked to the Nevada radio station KNPR about what
was going on in the Nevada Triangle. He certainly didn’t think all the accidents
had anything to do with secret weapons or mischievous extraterrestrials. He said it was simply bad weather. He added, “When the winds are coming up,
they come up kind of smoothly on the west side and then they have this very rapid descent
and there is a tremendous amount of turbulence that can be caused by such situations.” He said the planes that went missing or crashed
were all small planes. When they get caught in a downdraft they just
sometimes don’t have the power not to be taken away. He said a downdraft can hit a plane so hard
it could be like the Niagara Falls hitting something. He said an experienced pilot such as Steve
Fossett could get out of all sorts of tricky situations, but with a downdraft no level
of skill will save you at times. He also said in such a vast area some planes
just misjudge where they are. Pilots take off to see the wonderful scenery
of the Sierra Nevada mountains and end up becoming food for insects and foxes. So is there really a huge mystery here? Well, you don’t have to click around much
to find online sleuths saying some of those planes were likely brought down by aliens
or were target practice for the U.S. military, after all, there are plenty of people in this
world that believe the military hides more dark secrets than a teenage boy’s browser
history. Some theorists believe aliens might have abducted
those people, but as yet there is no solid proof in this world of aliens abducting people
unless you listen to a handful of folks that all seemed to live in small towns in rural
America in the 1950s. We’re gonna go out on a limb here and posit
that the Nevada Triangle is just an area with sometimes harsh weather for pilots. Either that, or some pilots just needed a
bit more training when traversing such a wild landscape. That said, if you’ve seen our video about
what was the inspiration for the TV show, “Stranger Things”, you’ll know there
are some people in this world of ours that believe that U.S. military has already developed
technology that can make things disappear and reappear, aka, teleportation. Were the planes teleported? Well, parts of missing planes have been turning
up for years, so it’s a hard theory to sell. If you have read the Missing 411 books written
by former police officer David Paulides, you will have seen that he says in the USA there
are places where clusters of people just go missing. The Nevada Triangle is one. He thinks something strange might be afoot,
but if you look at these places you can explain why they are death hotspots. Lots of people just go missing in this area
of the Nevada Triangle and sometimes they aren’t in planes, but hey, it’s full of
mountains and forests and wild animals. So, how do you explain someone who doesn’t
come home after going hiking in a treacherous landscape? Did he fall? Was he attacked by a bear? Did he freeze to death? How dare you be so rational; you know the
answer is he was teleported by the Air Force who had done a deal with some green guys who’d
just popped over from the Andromeda Galaxy. We apologize if our unravelling of this mystery
took some of the magic out of it, but we just couldn’t find many reasons for these disappearances
that couldn’t be explained by well understood, naturally occurring weather phenomenon or
even simpler explanations. Or are you still not convinced? Do you believe the U.S. government really
is hiding strange things from us including whatever supernatural power is making people
disappear in the Nevada Triangle? Tell us in the comments. Now go watch “What Happens At & What Do
We Know About Area 51?” Thanks for watching, and as always, don’t
forget to like, share and subscribe. See you next time. 