April 30, (G)I-DLE
M Count Down Waiting Room Planning on the Ending Pose~ I-DLE Has Become Cuter
Performing 'Luv U' Do something cute! Okay, that's cutest. You're cutest
when doing nothing. (Coy) Well, at  performance, Shuhua did 'crazy',
and she was so cute! (Raising) Actually, it was so awkward for me. You're so cute when doing it.
(Raising) I thought it was cool... But it turned out to be cute... Was it cute...?! (Blowing~) (Irritated)
Brush your teeth... LOL Rehearsing 'Luv U' >> (Embarrassed) Gush, I can't do it~! Everybody! Nowadays, I don't think
I am who I am...! I used to be a cool girl but... Really? So Cool! Find the Hidden Coolness Failed (Swaying) Cute Shushu is Irresistible (Cute) Pre-recording 'Luv U'
for the Last Week is Finished! I-DLE Members are Monitoring Together (Focusing~)
Cute. 'Crazy~' (Copying) (What's that?) LOL (Turning turning) Yuqi is Turning the Wrists Smoothly (Screaky)   (Stiff) We have to do it like this. Turning in One Direction is Hard...! I think Yuqi is good at
using the wrists! For instance... She's doing it well. (Copying Yuqi's Gesture Again...) Anyway, I love Shuhua's part
in the song a lot. 'Crazy~' (Cute) I love Minnie's part, too! Fried Tofu & Sushi Love Each Other's Part Nobody seems to like my part... (What about mine?) - Nobody.
- We're in the same boat. Misery Loves Company Easily fell~! Protecting Artist In the End, Copying & Teasing Each Other... Making Ugly Face Protecting Miyeon Keep Going
Copying Soojin This Time (Swaying gently) LOL It has its own point! Like this. (Flicking) This kind of mood, right? The Youngest Are Copying Soojin (Bleary) Just Ignore Not Even Close! (Copying Soojin Never Ends) 'Crazzy~' LOL A Battle for Copying...? Miyeon? (3 V) [G]I-DLE is at Performing 'Luv U' on the Stage! (G)I-DLE Finished the Pre-recording The Last Recording of 'Luv U'
in This Season at Today is the last day
of ! I can't believe
4 weeks have already passed. (The Puppy Girls are Quarreling Again) Since the weather is getting so hot, we sweat a lot when we dance. (Maltese Appears) Shushu in Pigtails is Double Cute~ I was so embarrassed and nearly fell down
when I did 'crazy' with this hair. Why? You look cute. Whimpering~ Living as a Cutie is So Tired... (Sighing) Soojin is Taking a Picture of Shuhua Eating Something Shuhua x 2 (Click) Laughing Hard After Taking the Picture (Giggle) It's the second time today. Whenever I eat something, Soojin took my pictures secretly~ (Giggle) Cute! In our house, when Shuhua is eating meals
watching TV in the living room, I can take pictures of Shuhua from my room. I always do that. Taking Picture of Shushu Secretly|is Soosoo's Little Fun When Soyeon was sleeping today... She did something! Shuhua mistook my head for a pillow... She lay down on me. It's because you covered|your face with the blanket. She lay down on me.
I was so startled. Soyeon & Shuhua's Episode Today~ Bored Soyeon's Teasing Yuqi (Glinting) Bored Soyeon is After Her Prey I came to tease Yuqi. Her Aim,  Should I tease you as Shuhua did to me? (Lying down) Making a Pretext of Shuhua,
Starting to Tease Yuqi <<Shuhua
Sis, you're too little to do that~ Shuhua's Remark is Hitting Hard Sis, you're too little to do that~
Having No Word in Reply I'll Tease Yuqi Some More LOL Yuqi, you look like her. Chun-Li? Pretending to Change the Topic to Yuqi We Cut Her Because She'll Talk Lengthly I don't want to know.
Don't google and show it. So, I was voluntarily shut!(?) Interpretation of Yuqi's Language:
I shut up myself because I knew you would do it. Did I say 'shut the mouth?' It Reminds Them of an Old Memory At that time, I was learning rap music. While Yuqi is Speaking,
Miyeon is Yawning (Yawning) (She's not missing it) Miyeon, it's boring, huh?|Let's take a rest! After Teasing Yuqi as Much as She Wants,
Soyeon is Disappearing She's just...
(Giggle) Bored Soyeon's Teasing Yuqi is Over (G)I-DLE
Show! Music Core Waiting Room Who's She with the Cute Pigtails? Very Girly Shushu~ (Oh, my~) I even couldn't monitor the show at home. Because I looked so babyish. (Shy)
I was so babyish! Who? What? (What kind of concept?) Who teased my little sister?
The Big Sister with Freckles Seems Tough So, Minnie's Concept Today? Hermione + Minnie = Herminnie Anything special today? (Anything special?) (I don't know) May 2nd,|Special Costume for What? Do you know why we're wearing it? Why? The point move for 'Luv U' Soyeon was inspired while watching some cartoons. Meaning of V in the cartoon
It Shows the Color of Your Heart! What color is your heart? (Let me see) (Surprised) (Expecting) Black! Shuhua's Heart is Black...! Minnie's Heart Color? Purple~? Eh? Oh, today, it's pink...! (Yes... A pink pendant...) To Celebrate the 2nd Anniversary of the Debut,
(G)I-DLE Prepared a Special Performance Actually, we're performing 'Luv U'
for our fans. So, I wanted to use the light stick
on the stage so badly. Finally, we came up with the idea
of holding the stick on the stage. That's why we chose
the concept of 'Magician Girls'! We're magician girls today. - That's right!
- Indeed. (G)I-DLE Turned into Magician Girls This 'Luv U' Performance
is Only for NEVERLAND Last Performance of 'Luv U'
The Music Trend Waiting Room For NEVERLAND... Appearing in the Cute Animal Pajamas Minnie Turned into a Squirrel NEVERLAND wanted to see us
in the animal pajamas. So, it got the highest votes! Frankly, I'm a bit shy
in this costume...! Why are you shy? Because cuteness
doesn't fit our team color. So, if we do something cute and bright,
all of us feel embarrassed. But, today, we're very much~ Cute~ Fuzzy~ And fresh! I'll smile as much as I can... I'm doing my best now...! First part... Practicing the cute face~ (Cute) (Embarrassed) (Cute again) (Saying she's embarrassed,
she's doing it so well) It's cuter
with the front teeth protruding. The Whiz of Cute Acting, Kim Minnie What Animal is Shushu Turning into? Soojin, what's my animal? - Owl!
- Wol...! (Shuhua's language)|It's a wol~ Shuhua's Feeling before
the Last Performance of the Season It's a pity. I wanted to do some more
but I couldn't... I'm so sad. A croc. Miss Croc~ Croc Miyeon Appears I'm so jealous of you!
You're wearing what you wanted. Shuhua Couldn't Wear What She Wanted Shuhua's Wish List 1. Wolf 2. Sheep 3. Panda None of Them Were Available Miyeon!
Will you go around like that? The Back of the Pajamas is Open... (Embarrassed) Because it's a very considerate(?) pajama, I could wear the mic through it. Miyeon Didn't Close
the Considerate Hole(?) Miyeon's General Review
About This Season Without NEVERLAND on the site... it wasn't much fun, honestly. Being one with our fans
is so important and precious. That's what I learned
through this season! Anyway, Lots of Good Things Happened
During the Performances in the Season Our dream of winning the top
on the public TVs came true. We've celebrated the second anniversary
and performed the B-side track for the first time. To celebrate the 2nd anniversary
and the last performance, we're wearing it. But, we never had the chance
to show them to our fans in person. (Sad) I Look Forward to the Day
We Can Share Everything with Our Fans! In Charge of Korean Writing
Yontararak For the Last Broadcasting Event
|She's Writing a Letter on the Palm Letter & Picture = Yontararak's in Charge Look at that. It's good! Writing & Drawing Big and Neat Who's next? Shuhua is Next (Excited Maltese) Next is Soojin It's tickly~ What's that? (Erasing wildly) (A Strange Sight a Thai is Writing
Korean Letters instead of Koreans) Our NE... Who's writing mine? I'll do it for you! Artist Cho is Writing It Down for Minnie Why is your palm so bumpy~! (Disconcerted)
Your palm is bumpy, too~ (Giggle) Next is Yuqi's Turn Writing Down on Soyeon's Palm,
Minnie's Mission is Completed! The Fact is That Minnie Was in Charge
of Writing Letters on the Palms The Last Performance of This Season! We Love Our NEVERLAND 'Oh my god' & 'Luv U'
All Performances are Over Now Did you see it? It's seen so clearly~! The Performance in the Animal Pajamas
NEVERLAND Wanted to See! We wanted to do 'Luv U' today
only for our NEVERLAND. By NEVERLAND! For NEVERLAND!|We did 'Luv U' Performance! We should keep up the good work and work hard to meet our fans. We'll Come Back to You
after Working a Lot Harder~ NEVERLAND,
we love you and thank you so much. - Thank you!
- Bye bye~ 