This video is supported by Brilliant. In the summer of 2012, SpaceX were looking
to expand their rocket launching business outside of Florida. At the time, the company had only flown their
Falcon 9 rocket a handful of times. But with a rapidly increasing launch schedule,
an additional launch site was required to meet their needs. They started looking at a small village in
Texas called Boca Chica where they could start building their own private spaceport. Boca Chica is a tiny community in Cameron
County, made up of just 35 houses. For years, it has been the dream spot for
retirees and vacationers, with waterfront properties - far away from civilization. The village is located on such a quiet and
untouched peace of land that water must be trucked into the community once a month. Basic errands like grocery shopping requires
a 40 minute commute into the nearest city of Brownsville. This raises the question, why would SpaceX
choose such a poor and desolate part of the country to start building their future spaceport? Despite the lack of basic infrastructure or
a skilled workforce, the quiet town of Boca Chica actually had a lot to offer SpaceX. Along with the abundance of cheap land and
nearby access to the sea, Boca Chica also had a low population density, making it the
perfect location to launch and land rockets. The state of Texas was also offering a $15
million incentive for them to build their spaceport in Texas. So SpaceX chose Boca Chica as their future
spaceport and broke ground in 2014. Although the Falcon 9’s launch schedule
was at an all time high, several years went by without any construction at the site. By this point, many assumed that SpaceX had changed their mind about building their new spaceport in Boca Chica. But life in the little town of Boca Chica
was about to change forever. In December 2018, a local resident shared
an image of a new structure at the SpaceX site. These images quickly spread around the space
community and many suggested that the structure could in fact be the beginnings of SpaceX's
new Starship rocket. At the time, this seemed like a crazy theory
and most people assumed that this was simply a new water tower being built for the site. But after rounds of speculation, SpaceX revealed
that this structure really was the beginnings of a rocket called Starhopper - designed as
an early test bed for Starship. As the months went on, SpaceX’s presence
in the community grew and soon they were ready to test Starhopper. With local residents documenting every move, Starhopper took to the sky in a spectacular show, coming back down to land under its own
propulsion. While this test was a major achievement for
SpaceX, it didn’t come without its disturbances. During the test, residents had to remain outside
of their homes to avoid getting injured by shattering windows. As the weeks went on, it was clear that SpaceX
couldn’t increase the scale of their tests without putting the residents in danger. So SpaceX began the process of buying out
the entire town and sent letters to residents offering to buy their house for three times
the market value. Although many residents accepted the offer,
many understandably declined and refused to give up their dream life to a company that
could easily offer so much more. With an average property value of around $80,000,
SpaceX would have spent at least $8.5 million to buyout every house. But for the residents that were being pressured
to move, even a triple-value offer wouldn’t be enough to find a similar home in a different
location. While SpaceX doesn't have the right to kick
residents out of their homes, the County does. And while the County wants to avoid evicting
people from their homes, they have an opportunity to create a thriving industry and provide
high paying jobs to one of the most economically depressed regions of the country. This is where eminent domain comes in. Texas law states that “private property
may only be taken by a government or private entity that is authorized to do so,” meaning
that Cameron County could give SpaceX the right to seize the properties. However, these legal requirements also state
that seizing any property must only occur for a purpose that benefits the general public. While Texas does not allow eminent domain
for the benefit of private landowners, there is an alternative which would involve SpaceX
giving the land over to the government. This would not be ideal for SpaceX since they
would risk losing control over their first privately owned spaceport. SpaceX decided to extend their deadline
and increase offers for some of the remaining residents. Some residents were able to get their homes
reevaluated since SpaceX hadn’t taken into account the loss of business for residents
that were using their homes as an AirBnB. As of March, seven houses remain unsold to
SpaceX and the negotiations could continue to go on for much longer. SpaceX will likely do everything they can
to purchase the remaining properties and claim the village to themselves. SpaceX recently hired hundreds of new workers
to create a constant 24 hour production line. Although the residents of Boca Chica were essentially forced to give up their dream life, it will hopefully be an important sacrifice
for the exciting future that SpaceX are trying to create for everyone. Thank you very much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. 