Before we can jump into the crazy advanced
settings and configurations of the software, you really need to take some time and get
familiar with the UI – or user interface – of Open Broadcaster Software. Anytime I say this, many roll their eyes,
think they can just follow along with the tutorials without knowing the UI, and then
they end up being the ones to post comments asking where I found this setting or that
setting. The UI doesn’t change super drastically
across updates, so even if the software updates this guide will be pretty relevant in the
future. I’m EposVox, here to make tech easier and
more fun, and welcome back to my OBS Studio tutorial course. I have many, many more videos on the software
in the playlist linked in the description. Check that before asking questions, and check
the introduction video to learn how this course works, if you get confused. Let’s take a look at OBS Studio’s UI and
where you can find the various settings. Specifics will be covered in the relevant
tutorials, whereas this video will covered how to find areas of settings. The main OBS window consists of the stream
preview, scenes and sources lists, audio mixer, transition controls, and your start and stop
buttons. As with every software ever, the top bar of
menus contains access to literally everything you need from the program. Either at the top of your window on Windows,
or in your system title bar on Mac or Linux if you have the program maximized. These menus include the obvious “File, Edit,
View, Tools, Help” menus, but also Profile and Scene Collections menus which are super
important if you use OBS for multiple different scenarios – such as recording, streaming,
and podcasting – so we will cover these in depth in a dedicated video in the course. The bottom bar features your recording and
streaming timers, current frame rate, and a CPU usage indicator. This is super useful for checking your stream
bandwidth health, recording time, and overall system performance. If your CPU load is high, you may need to
lower your settings. Typically, the stream preview only has a single
video window, which just shows your active stream view. However, if you click the “Studio Mode”
button over on the right, you then have 2 previews, with transition controls between
them. The preview on the right is the active stream
preview that your live viewers or recording file sees. The preview on the left is whichever scene
you select. This is handy for editing scenes on the fly,
or prepping scenes before you switch. I’ll cover this more in depth in a future
video. You can use the controls in the menu to set
up transition options or transition between your scenes. The Scenes and Sources section is for changing
what viewers actually see. Sources are your individual on-stream elements
– such as a video source like a capture card or webcam, a still image overlay, browser
sources for stream alerts, and so on. Scenes are groupings of sources for different
points of your stream. For example, you can set up a scene for a
full-screen webcam view for when you’re just talking to your audience, a scene for
gameplay footage and facecam in the corner, a scene with just gameplay, a still image
scene with an image saying “BRB” for when you need to run to the bathroom, and so on. You will be using this a TON so it’s worth
testing out all of the options here. The audio mixer is super important, too. This is where you balance your different audio
sources – such as your microphone, game sound, extra inputs, and so on. The audio levels are typically green, but
if you hit 0db and clip or peak they turn red. You NEVER want this to happen, and need to
avoid it by having things around minus 10 db or so. This isn’t really indicated properly on-screen,
but aim for your levels to only ever hit here at the HIGHEST point. The most commonly-overlooked part of the mixer
is the channel assignments. You see, OBS Studio allows you to record multiple
audio tracks to a file, which you can then balance in editing. By clicking the gear icon next to the each
audio source in the mixer and hitting “Advanced Audio Properties” - or going to “Edit”
- “Advanced Audio Properties”, you can change which channel each audio source goes
to. Most people miss this, and by default, all
audio sources go to all tracks. If you don’t separate your tracks, all of
your different tracks will be the same. Again, all of this will be covered in its
own video. Check out the settings menu. Click Settings in the lower-right. The “General” tab includes system-wide
and user interface settings. This includes the Dark theme, a more colorful
dark theme called “Rachni”, an option to automatically start recording when you
hit Start Streaming, setting up “projectors” to have a full-screen stream view on a secondary
monitor, and so on. The “Stream” tab is for choosing your
streaming service and adding your login info. The “Output” tab is for configuring your
streaming and recording settings. Here you can adjust your codecs, bitrates,
and scaled resolutions for your audio, streams, and recordings. By default this shows a “Simple” mode,
but most of this course will involve the “Advanced” mode – selected by the top drop-down menu. The Simple mode isn’t super useful for most
people. The “Audio” tab is for setting up your
audio devices, such as microphones, headphones, and so on – as well as enabling push-to-talk
keys. The “Video” tab is for setting up your
resolution, frame rate, and scaling settings. The dimensions of your video. The “Hotkeys” tab allows you to set up
handy hotkeys for quickly switching scenes, sources, and starting or stopping recording
or streaming. The ”Advanced” tab contains a lot of fun,
high-level settings to configure your stream. These can be useful for changing “Processor
Priority” to reduce impact on your processor, set up faster streaming, stream delays, and
so on. If you don’t like where things are… change
it! As of version 20.0, OBS Studio let’s you
move the UI modules around by going to “View” - “Docks” - and then un-checking “Lock
UI.” Then you can drag the modules around, as desired. I cover this more in-depth in my OBS Studio
Update 20 walkthrough video, linked in the video description and in the course playlist. That was a lot. There’s a lot of settings in OBS Studio,
and the wonderful dev team is always adding more. But by learning the sections of settings well,
you’ll always be able to make adjustments or fixes to your stream config and get it
working for you. In future OBS Course videos, we tackle each
of these individual settings and recording scenarios in very detailed guides. Check out the playlist linked in the video
description and card icon to keep learning. That’s it for this OBS tutorial. Hit the like button if you enjoyed, and share
with a friend if they also want to learn the program. I’ll see you next time. Thanks for watching this episode of my OBS
Studio tutorial course. More videos like this and a full master class
are linked in the playlist in the video description. Click to learn more. Also consider joining us on Patreon to help
keep tech education free. Go to Patreon.com/eposvox to sign up. 