Hi, guys!
I'm Shin Jiyoon of Weeekly Two of my songs are going to be
featured in this album And they're called
"Reality" and "Weeekly Day" "Weeekly Day" is an intro of the album We needed a theme song
for Weeekly's Youtube channel And they told me,
"Why don't you make a song?" So I had written five or six songs
for that and this is one of them Then they came to me one day and told me,
"Your song is going to be in the album" And I remember going "What?" I had just made that song thinking
it would be our channel's theme song So I was surprised as well as my bandmates The composer who worked on the song
with me arranged it beautifully So I'm very happy with how it turned out ("Weeekly Day" Recording) Rather than the key dropping here, I think it should go straight up - Let's give it a listen
- Okay Instead of separating each note
when you sing "Everyday" I think it'd be better if you would
let it linger for a bit at the end But don't change the note too much Alright Something like "Everyday"? Yes, but a bit more toward the end A bit more subtle at the end, you know? I'm totally self-taught, so... I couldn't even go to sleep
because I was so worried I've never learned songwriting
or MIDI professionally So I was uncertain in the beginning
if I was in the right track I was incredibly anxious and worried But my bandmates did a brilliant job and said encouraging words like
"Jiyoon, the song is amazing" So I gained more confidence and the direction of the song
became clearer which is nice Could you sing with more vibrato here? - This part?
- More vibrato and breathing Okay - Awesome
- Alright Breathing out naturally when you sing
this part might make it sound prettier Okay Okay, thank you When it comes to "reality",
you think about your own life And I felt that most people
get the impression of dark, stark, and even cold environments But this is what made me a bit sad Why does the reality of myself and
so many people always have to be so dark? I wanted "reality" to also
feel hopeful and happy like something out of a fairy tale So I wrote the lyrics
with a hopeful message I actually didn't expect this song to be included in our album at all
when I wrote the lines So my bandmates found it
very difficult to sing There are many high notes
and the rhythm is quite tricky as well And I had a really hard time
directing the song at first I kept thinking,
"Could this song go in our album?" "What do I do? It might not make it
in the album if it goes like this" That process led me to question
my directing capabilities and I've had some rough times But I think that's what makes me
love this song even more Jiyoon wrote the song "Reality" It's a great song
but it's too hard to sing That's why it required a lot of
practice to sing this song And even though it was hard,
the outcome sounds very beautiful Guys, you can do it! I'm hearing from here and there
that I made "Reality" too difficult to sing [Soeun] I'm sure you didn't mean to Yeah, it just turned out this way We're just not used to this style of song,
and that must be why it feels tricky - That's a possibility
- But the song is really great So that I can write songs that
better suit our bandmates, - I'll try harder!
- It's not like you knew I didn't know my song was
going in our album [Staff] We've decided to include
two of your songs in the album - Two?
- [Staff] Yes, two of them I honestly didn't see it coming,
not even 0.00001% I've sent in about 80 songs
to our label so far For me, "Weeekly Day" or "Reality" was just one of the 80 songs I sent in! So I was like,
"They're going in the album?" "Never in my wildest dreams", You know... So I never expected this to happen Personally, I really like songs
that are fun to listen to So I want to write a lot of songs
that the listeners can enjoy And I want Weeekly's colors to show more in our music Thank you for listening to my songs In order to write better
and improved songs that you can have fun listening
to them in the future, I'm going to try very hard So please look forward to it Thank you so much! 