(TWICE is done filming in the studio!) Thank you in advance for Jeju island  shooting too! (To Jeju island for the rest of the filming, GO! GO!)
Good job! We're in Jeju island! (Why aren't the member's coming?)
Why aren't they coming? (Hurry) (TDOONG will go on a boat!) (Careful) (Momo will go on too!)
I'm going on too. (We're going) (The wind is blowing hard!) My eyes hurt a lot. The wind was blowing so hard. It's a good thing that it finished quickly. (Please look forward to it!) Please look forward to it. (Tofu is sending us a message from afar!)
I can't open my eyes wide. (Here!
The sun is shining!) (Oh no) (Did you all see it?) (The sunlight is reflecting on my face) (Going forward
Sunshine is reflecting!) (Oh no) (The dance filming starts
with the sunlight and wind!) (So one more time!) (Na-yeon is about to fly) (TWICE finishes the dance filming
with the wind!) (No matter where they are, they make sure 
to monitor themselves carefully!) (A new director appears with a big laugh) (Director Lim NA-bong) Everyone, please relax and please stretch your shoulders. (Tofu) (Tofu, please stretch)
Please do it. (Okay, Director Na-bong) (Laughing
Tofu gives up) (Tofu, the master of social life 
listens to Director Na-bong) (Peaking) (Social life is difficult,
but Tofu is always smiling) Director! (Did you call Director Na-bong?)
How do you look at this? Director! (Tofu, Director Na-bong is right here)
How do you look at this? (Director Na-bong takes care of it)
This? Wait a moment. (Sometimes, even Director Na-bong doesn't know)
I don't know how to work it. (Director Lim Na-bong is totally into the roll play)
Are you telling me what to do? You're the director! (Rector Na-bong is having fun
Director Na-bong's eyes want some reaction) (Overflowing reactions) ♪ That is ♪ (The masters of social life, TDOONG
is great at giving reactions) (Na-bong Stop) (Yoo Jjang-gu uses a megaphone 
to stop Na-bong's roll play...) (Getting ready to film 
under the very hot sun!) (The umbrella shade appears) (Hopping) (The umbrella shade will protect SANAYUN) (But the umbrella shade is being 
attacked by the wind) (Help Sana) (Let me go SANAYUN) (Peace comes after the wind!) (Attacking Sana's behind) (Hey) (Attacking Sana's behind for the 2nd time) (Hey) (Pretends nothing happened) NA! DA! MI! (One more time)
Do it again. TWICE. We're Na Mi Da! (Na-yeon, Da-hyun and Mina 
are filming as a unit!) (One, two) (Mina squatting) (They are "MORE & MORE" prettier 
in the cave!) In the music video 
of "Dance The Night Away" the three of us filmed in a cave. (2 years ago, Na, Mi and Da 
was in the DTNA cave!) (ONCE, do you remember the DTNA cave?) - We're finally out. After 2 years.
- After 2 years. (Na, Mi, Da is finally out of the cave after 2 years!)
Finally we're able to see the outside world. (But acting in cave is not easy...) (Are we happy to be out of the cave?)
Are we happy? Or... No. You're just amazed.
You're amazed by nature. Oh, over here? (Na-bong is acting amazed) (You try Mina!) (Minari is "OOH-AHH" amazed) (Okay, got it!) (Black Swan & Tofu 
is dancing an amazing ballet) (Mina, do it again!) (Jeongnam's acting amazed) (It'll be difficult)
I think it'll be very difficult. (Even if it's difficult, we'll do well!) (Na, Mi, Da is happy to be out of the cave) (Yay) (The nature is wonderful) (With the happy laughter,
the unit filming ends!) (TWICE has come together to film the evening scene)
It's an evening scene. It's the evening dance scene. I think it was more difficult
because it was during the day. The sun was reflecting onto our faces. My eyes were hurting. (Too much energy and excitement) (Let's go) (Suddenly an eagle appears) (How TDOONG beats the wind: 
With their fists) Filming outside is really... You never know what will happen. (The dance break is really cool!) (TWICE is doing their best
to the end!) (TWICE's music video filming is over!) - Good job!
- Good job! (Even in the cold weather, 
TWICE finishes filming safely!) (Good job TWICE) 