I can’t remember the last time a game left
me as conflicted, took me on such an emotional journey as Oddworld Soulstorm; with such intense
peaks and valleys and feelings ranging from intrigue and fascination to frustration and
outright confusion, making me question my preconceived notions about an entire series
and genre, that I guess I just have to talk you through to try and make sense of myself. Strap in, this is going to be a long one. For context, my relationship with the Oddworld
series could be characterised by a kind of distant respect—the visual design of these
games is utterly unique, and honestly I could listen to series co-creator Lorne Lanning
talk forever about his original vision for the Oddworld quintology—even if it hasn’t
been fully realised, I still very much appreciate the ambition. That is, even if my prevailing memory of the
series from countless hours spent with it in my youth was of a kind of clunkiness in
its control. Like many I’ve talked to about the game,
I thought that there was maybe a reason this particular brand of “cinematic platformer”
hadn’t quite made the jump to the modern gaming landscape. All of this to say that I think I liked the
idea of these games more than I liked the thought of actually going back and replaying
them. As it turns out the reality of things is completely
different from what I first though, but believe me, we’ll come onto that. Essentially it was that respect for the vision
of the series that still left me pretty excited to check out Soulstorm when that first trailer
hit—there was something triumphant about the grand return of this series, and my excitement
only grew when I found out that this full game would be given out to PlayStation Plus
subscribers for free on PS5 at launch. Maybe this series will get the attention it
probably deserves, I thought. It's not necessarily the forward progression
in the quintology I was hoping for—instead functioning as a reimagining of the second
game Abe’s Exodus—but it’s the Exodus the team at Oddworld Inhabitants wanted to
create; given that the 1998 sequel was originally rushed out in a baffling short period of nine
months at the publisher’s behest. Plus, it now has the lick of paint the series
probably needed, and a whole bunch of people will get to play it… only for Soulstorm
to release and be met with what felt like complete radio silence, with some complaints
here and there about the game’s technical state. I, having a pretty high tolerance for that
kind of thing, however, was more than willing to go along for the ride and try to see the
vision underneath the unvarnished exterior. And honestly, for the first few hours, I was
enjoying myself a fair bit. Sure, it was occasionally frustrating to have
to load a checkpoint if something went awry with the enemy AI, for instance—a frustration
only compounded when the checkpoint itself would be bugged—but ya know… there is
an ambition on show here—this is a massive world they’ve created, even if you only
see it from a 2.5D perspective. And, crucially, it’s one that really sets
out to make you feel utterly tiny by comparison, like you could be crushed at any second. I first noticed this when I was ducking behind
cover, trying to figure out the best way forward, but the onslaught of slig fire from the distance
started to chip away at what little sanctuary I had, forcing me to act fast because I had
no idea when it was going to crumble completely. When I had previously thought about this type
of game, Soulstorm’s cinematic platforming lineage, the thing that came to mind were
rigidity, but here we have a level of unpredictability that really forces you to keep moving because
you really aren’t safe anywhere for very long. And this unpredictability led to moments where
I found that just because the game was on a set linear path, that there was maybe more
than one way to get through a situation—like when I was spotted by a flying slig but I
couldn’t possess it thanks to an anti-charm sensor, kicking off a tense chase where I
had to get him just out of reach of the sensor and fire off a charm as quickly as I could
so that it ended up shocking the slig as opposed to me; giving me a few precious seconds to
untie my restrained mudokon friend and bolt past my now unconscious foe. Moments like this gave off a frantic energy—a
mixture of clever workarounds and not really knowing how I made it through each given scenario. And all of this seemed to match up pretty
well with the character of Abe himself—a character whose story Soulstorm places a much
greater focus on than you might expect. I was initially pretty impressed with this
focus on getting Abe’s perspective on things—on making him more… human. What was previously a fairly simple setup
of Abe being told to go sort out the glukkons digging up his ancestors bones, with Abe merely
responding “okey dokey” and going on his merry way, here the setup is way more… solemn. I always had in my mind that Abe was just
a bit of a goofball, especially looking the way he does; merely bumbling his way through
situations to largely comic effect. Here, though, he’s framed less as simply
the unlikely hero and more as an unwilling one. He has the general desire to help his fellow
mudokons but he’s consistently bombarded from all directions with these vague notions
of how he’s the leader these people need, he’s the hero that has to save everyone. And the game goes to great lengths to highlight
that Abe doesn’t really have any idea what to do with that huge weight of responsibility—leading
to some harrowing moments of Abe’s distress as he tells a dying mudokon he has no idea
how he can help, just awkwardly apologising as this guy slowly perishes in front of him. It’s strange to see a character as outwardly
cartoonish as Abe fall to the ground in tears. I’d always remembered Oddworld as a dark
series underneath the juvenile humour but Soulstorm was definitely foregrounding that
oppressively grim tone. And this tone initially is reflected pretty
well in the gameplay, because after playing, you can see why Abe would be so exhausted. With the game’s levels forming one singular
trip without interruption, without even the separate screens of older titles to break
up the puzzles, there’s a relentless quality to this whole journey; that feeling that you
can never catch a break here. It all just continues—at points, seemingly
endlessly. Some of these incredibly long, winding levels
can take up to an hour to beat and the tension is pretty constant, only increasing as the
game progresses. It’s to the point that Soulstorm, to me,
ended up giving off the vibe of a comedic survival horror more than anything else. It took me longer than most games to just
get an ending here, and honestly I’ve not got them all yet. Because Soulstorm is tough. Sure, the old Abe games revolve around trial
and error to a certain extent, but Soulstorm goes further by gating off fairly vast amounts
of content behind a surprisingly high quarma threshold—the game’s morality meter. To get anything beyond the absolute worst
ending in the game, you have to go pretty far out of your way to play as pacifistically
as possible; rescuing pretty much all the mudokons you can possibly search for. And honestly, there’s a part of me that
totally gets why that is. It would be difficult, but doable for Abe
to just go through this whole gauntlet himself, but it takes on a whole new level of challenge
when you’ve got to think about guiding your friends through all of this stuff too. It’s not enough to simply jump over that
obstacle when it’s clearly safe for you to do so—you have to take into account the
delayed reaction of your fellow mudokons and take a bit more personal risk to ensure they
all make it across in time. And there was a period, when I saw people
complaining about the bugs, that I was viewing the constant escort missions here as if I
were playing a Fumito Ueda game or something—lightly excusing their inconsistent responsiveness
as these mudokons simply possessing their own minds, their own ways of doing things. You end up forced to make these constant decisions
about the safety of the many vs the few. Do I risk my own life and the lives of these
many mudokons for the sake of saving one more? Is it possible for me to save all these people
without unintentionally leaving some behind in their grim life of slavery? These are the kinds of questions at the heart
of Abe’s new, more vulnerable character. In a world as oppressive as this, Soulstorm
exemplifies that it can be really damn hard to do the right thing, to be the one person
standing up for and trying to unite your fellow man—a message that’s potentially pretty
resonant given what are essentially the labour struggles consistently at the heart of the
series’ identity. But, ya know, that’s just it. It was thinking about that consistency across
the entire series when I realised I should go back and play the older games, mainly for
footage but also to confirm the way I remembered them playing. And while I was talking about all that stuff
with Soulstorm’s dark tone and how it manifests in gameplay, a lot of you were probably thinking
“wait, isn’t all that what the old games did anyway?” And you’d be totally right. Soulstorm portraying the struggle of being
the good you want to see in the world is nothing new, and what’s more… it’s not better
either. I ended up playing through way more of both
Oddysee and Exodus than I intended to because, man, those games still rule. It’s easy to look at this footage and see
a clunky, rigid old cinematic platformer with dated visuals—I mean pre-rendered backgrounds? Come on! But the fact is, these games have aged remarkably
well—far outclassing their contemporaries and also… controlling way better than Soulstorm. Because of their structural rigidity, the
fact that these older titles are on a strict 2d plane and each environment is broken up
into distinct screens, means that everything, every platform, every obstacle is super easily
defined and readable. Once you’ve figured out the carefully constructed
puzzle in each of these densely packed challenge rooms, it’s clear at every stage exactly
what you need to do to execute on that strategy. And it’s this clarity that stops the intricate,
lengthy animations getting in the way or feeling actually clunky as much as they just highlight
how fragile, how inherently unheroic Abe is. By comparison Soulstorm, lacking that clarity,
that consistency of control and enemy behaviour, started to feel more and more awkward—I
found myself questioning what the hell even killed me in some of the later levels; wondering
how I was even meant to get past certain encounters, because the cluster of enemies and obstacles
haphazardly thrown on screen seemed to move without rhyme or reason, and so I would just
flail around hoping I could exploit buggy animations for long enough that I could get
out unscathed. What’s more, far from feeling dated, the
pre-renders in Oddysee and Exodus allow the developers to get really buckwild with the
visual design—the kind of thing the phrase “every frame a painting” was built for. The further you delve into the industrial
hellscape of the original games, the grimier it all gets. There’s not much light, there’s blood,
rotting carcasses everywhere; it’s almost like you can smell it. And it’s here I realised—Oddworld has
always been a punishingly dark series first and foremost. At first I found it a little odd that people
were so upset about the removal of something as silly as the fart button but I began to
think that these games needed that kind of levity to sugar the pill a bit, on what was
already an incredibly bleak situation, in a story that makes no bones about its focus
on worker exploitation and the horrors of industrial greed. You know, the recap in the original Abe’s
Exodus to catch players up literally opens with a joke about how the players were probably
too cheap to just buy the original. It’s funny, but it also lines up with the
game’s themes. In some ways it actually heightens their impact,
when you’ve been chuckling away at the goofy dudes fartin’ and fightin’ only to be
struck with the stark reminder that they’re actual slaves with their eyes sewn shut so
they can’t see that they’re mining the bones of their ancestors as ingredients for
soft drinks the executives would keep them addicted to so that they could be controlled
indefinitely. The older games managed to take that crushing
darkness and weave in a more generally boisterous sense of humour throughout every screen of
the game without diluting any of the real anger and compassion driving the creation
of these stories—a unique personality that the completely dry loading screens in Soulstorm,
for example, distinctly lack. You can maybe start to see where I’m coming
from here—it was easy at first to justify Soulstorm’s rough exterior and design idiosyncrasies
as interesting quirks; necessary if you’re going to bring that style of platformer to
the modern age—you know, they were always like this… until I went back to those older
games and found that none of that was the case at all and that these games were always
just really good. And from that point of realisation, more and
more of the experience of this most recent title began to unravel for me. It shifted my view of Soulstorm’s mudokons
from that kind of autonomous being with their own thoughts and reactions to things, to just
straight up busted. The Gamespeak functionality in prior titles
was simple but it did allow for complex states of being for different kinds of mudokons. They were erratic, but they were totally in
your control, completely responsive, if you could just remember the right command to press
at the right time. A blind mudokon required a different approach
to one that was infected with laughing gas, for instance. It gave the mudokons actual personality, there
were equal parts humour and sadness tied into those little interactions and monosyllabic
back-and-forths, because ultimately, you were the one driving them—creating the comedy. In Soulstorm, there’s zero actual challenge
to controlling the mudokons—you can tell them to move and wait, and in between there’s
just the frustrating dice roll of whether they’re actually going to move along with
you. They’re all the same—the complexities
of gamespeak replaced with the same repetitive quips playing over and over again (whose audio
is horribly balanced to boot). And don’t get me started on the sections
where the screen will just zoom out to such a crazy degree that it’s impossible to even
read what’s happening—where are the enemies here? Where am I?! You know, sure, I get it, it’s hard to do
the right thing, but it becomes literally impossible when these idiots get stuck in
a wall texture—I’m not a bad person for trying and failing to find any way to free
them. And with the high quarma standards for finding
and saving all these mudokons, the developers are clearly banking on most players having
to replay levels, which ends up surfacing a problem with the new looting and crafting
system. Obviously you can’t just have players breaking
the game’s puzzle and stealth encounters, going from level to level with a backpack
bulging with mines and projectiles they’ve crafted, so even if you’re playing through
the game sequentially, Abe’s inventory is arbitrarily reduced to nought at the start
of each level. There’s no explanation given—like, I saw
where he came from! What happened between there and here that
he lost everything?! And all of this speaks to the fact that, for
all the ambition that’s on show in some areas, other aspects of the game’s design
come off as woefully undercooked. The crazy situation I described earlier where
I had to react to a perilous situation and came out on top was countered later on by
a similar scenario where I had to get to the other end of a room guarded by several snipers
and a flying slig that would spawn after one of the various motion sensors had been triggered,
hit a lever and make my way back to get to the level below. This seems incredibly tough, but what if I
just possessed the flying slig and bypassed it all—hitting the lever without having
to move from my current spot? And… my thoughts of how this was a clever
workaround turned to bafflement as I banged up against an actual invisible wall. Moments like this make it seem absurd that
those older games could be called rigid and clunky when the techniques Soulstorm uses
to railroad you along its strict path seem like so much of an afterthought. And this is the emotional journey I’ve been
on with Soulstorm—it’s been legitimately hard for me to process my thoughts here; where
an initially compelling experience whose relative radio silence felt off to me, began to crumble
as each block of the game’s design toppled into another—each flaw affecting something
else and generating an entirely different flaw. And to be clear, it brings me no pleasure
to tear something like this down; as negative as this all might seem, I don’t hate Soulstorm,
it’s still Oddworld, it’s still intriguing in its own way… it’s just a marked step
down from its predecessors released back in the 90s, the style of game this was meant
to bring into the modern age. And at the end I’m left with a game that
I really want to like, that there is stuff to like about, but instead the predominant
feeling is just that in the future I hope Oddworld Inhabitants decides to move forward
with their vision rather than looking back. Some of the highlights in this series are
found in the unpredictable twists on genres as found in games like Stranger’s Wrath—it’s
just that the kind of game that Soulstorm represents has already been done far better
in the past. So I hope you all enjoyed this piece on Oddworld
Soulstorm. If you liked the video help me out by hitting
the corresponding button and subscribing, as well as checking out my podcast in the
description below. I’m also going to be streaming a lot more
in the near future so be sure to follow me at http://twitch.tv/writingongames to be updated
when I’m going live. I’d also like to thank my patrons here—these
videos simply would not exist without your support and I really mean that. If you’ve enjoyed any of the videos I’ve
put out and want to help the channel continue so I can keep making more, you can directly
help out as well as get things like early access to ad-free video uploads by heading
to http://patreon.com/writingongames and pledging only what you feel comfortable with. I am forever thankful for your support in
whatever form it takes. Special thanks go to Mark B Writing, Artjom
Vitsjuk, Nicholas Villeneuve, KaeptnKnusprig, Ruth Knapman, Lea Chinelo, Henry Milek, Bryce
Snyder, Lucas, David Bjork, Winter, Timothy Jones, Jordan Middler, Hibiya Mori, TheNamlessGuy,
Tommy Carver Chaplin, Dr. Motorcycle, Shardfire, Rob, Ana Pimentel, Jessie Rine, Spike Jones,
Dallas Kean, Charlie Kimball and Charlie Yang. And with that, this has been another episode
of Writing on Games. Thank you all so much for watching, stay safe
and I will see you all next time. 