This video is about bricks. Bricks come in all shapes and sizes and each
of these has its own name. In the field of commercial architecture, a
common choice is the Norman. The long, slender shape of this incorporates
elegantly into modern architecture, while still maintaining its cost-effectiveness for
large-scale projects. The brick with the best name of all, though,
is a variant of the Norman—it’s called the Slim Jumbo Norman. With its unique long yet shallow sha… ok,
that should be enough brick talk to get the feds of of my trail. There’s no way they’d sit through all
of that. You see, the topic of this video, the real
reason this skyscraper in Manhattan doesn’t have any windows, is a highly classified government
secret—a secret we only know because of leaked NSA documents and investigative reporting. The skyscraper in question is known by two
names: some call it The Long Lines Building, which is also what I call Newark airport,
while others call it simply 33 Thomas Street. Now, I’m not going to reveal its exact address
so no, “Florida Man Raids NSA Building After Watching Confusing, Unfunny YouTube Video,”
headline ends up in the paper soon, but the building is in the Tribeca area of New York. It stands 550 feet or 170 meters tall, has
29 stories and, just like Apple’s headquarters or a coffee shop in Brooklyn, has no windows
at all. Until recently, not much was known about the
building. The only real publicly available information
was that it was built between 1969 and 1974 by AT&T, designed by an architect named John
Carl Warnecke, and that it served as a telephone switchboard hub, mainly routing AT&T’s long-distance
phone calls. It’s easy to forget now that everyone has
a cell phone that they protect as if it’s their own child, but phones used to all be
connected by physical cables—and landlines still are. For the whole system to work, the cables all
have to connect to each other, and 33 Thomas Street is one of the places where that connection
happens. 33 Thomas Street’s job is to change which
cable is connected to which based on who is trying to call who. There used to be actual people who did this
called telephone operators who would actually answer your call, ask who you wanted to talk
to, and then switch the cable by hand, but after a while, we figured out that not only
did everybody hate talking to strangers on the phone, but also that that system was incredibly
inefficient, and so the telephone operators were replaced with machines, just like we
all will be in 50 years. I mean, once bots learn to read Wikipedia
pages quickly, use outdated memes, and write bad puns, it’s over for me. These phone switching machines require intense
security and they have to run no matter what—after all, if the machines stop working, the phones
stop working. Even in a disaster scenario, the machines
need to stay operational—the only thing worse than an hurricane is a sharkicane, but
the only other thing worse than a hurricane is an hurricane that knocks out the phone
lines, so people can’t communicate and get help. That everything-proofness was the public justification
for the lack of windows at 33 Thomas Street—the architect claimed he was told that he needed
to design a building that could survive a nuclear blast and still keep the phones working. The only way to do that was to build it without
windows, so that’s what they did. But recent reporting suggests that’s convenient
for another reason. According to reporting from The Intercept,
33 Thomas Street is much more than just an AT&T phone switching hub. With more efficient modern equipment, AT&T
had some empty floors so they were kind enough to lease these out… to the NSA. It’s here where there’s an NSA surveillance
site, used to tap into and monitor phone calls, faxes, satellite transmissions, and internet
data. In 2013, an NSA subcontractor named Edward
Snowden released a massive trove of classified documents revealing that the US had secretly
been running several global surveillance programs. Believe it or not, back in 2013, the fact
that the government was doing a bunch of sketchy, illegal surveillance was considered surprising
news. Among the leaked documents there was frequent
mention of a mysterious surveillance site called TITANPOINTE, but its location was so
classified that even Snowden didn’t have access to it. In 2016, though, journalists were able to
piece together a series of different clues in Snowden’s documents, combine it with
their own reporting, and prove that 33 Thomas Street is, in fact, the mysterious TITANPOINTE. Here’s how: One document disclosed that
TITANPOINTE was in New York City. Another said that the site was supervised
by LITHIUM—which we know is the NSA’s codename for AT&T. Yet another said part of TITANPOINTE’s surveillance
work was intercepting satellite communications and there’s only one place in New York City,
run by AT&T, that has satellite ground stations—33 Thomas Street. You can even see its satellite dishes in the
satellite imagery of its roof. There was other evidence too—for example,
one document said that to get to TITANPOINTE, you should first head to the FBI’s New York
office, which is only a block away from 33 Thomas Street. Plus, another document said that TITANPOINTE
had several pieces of equipment that AT&T employees have confirmed are used at 33 Thomas
Street, and of course, the final piece of evidence was that 33 Thomas Street is a freaking
skyscraper that doesn’t have any windows, which is about as suspicious as a sign that
says, “NORMAL BUILDING, NOT A SPY CENTER AT ALL JUST A TOTALLY NORMAL BUILDING, NOTHING
TO SEE HERE.” Of course, if you want to build a massive,
global surveillance network, you’re going to need a solid understand of computer science
and there’s no better place to start learning exactly that than Brilliant. Computer Science is, of course, a daunting
field and a lot of places will teach you individual coding languages without teaching you the
principles linking them all together. Brilliant, however, focuses on those fundamentals
teaching them in an approachable, intuitive way that really helps you understand how to
use what you end up learning later on in advanced courses. Brilliant’s interactive computers science
courses are just some of their many fantastic courses, so if you want to learn complex topics
easily, it’s worth checking them out. To learn more about Brilliant, go to brilliant.org/hai
and sign up for free, but then, the first 200 people that go to that link will also
get 20% off the annual Premium subscription. 