- A lot of times, people ask us, why don't you cut something open cleanly? Well, we just did it. (loud sawing sounds) It's finally here, the Galaxy Fold. We have it in our hands. What we're gonna do
- That case is so big. - It is big, because it's a big phone, but we're gonna do what we do. We're gonna destroy the Galaxy Fold. - That's sad. It's expensive, right? - Yeah, this was not cheap, but, you guys have been
asking for it a ton. Our friend Zack from JerryRigEverything did an awesome tear down, showing every little precise
thing inside of this. And so, we thought that we would take a little bit of a different approach. but for now. - You drop this. Hey!
(laughing) (maniacal replay) - All right. There's our box. This big ole white box. Awe, that's nice looking. Okay, we got the fold. Oh, it's not as big as I thought. I thought it would be so big that it would just be uncomfortable to hold.
- No. That's not that big.
- No. - It's big for a phone. - First of all-- - You couldn't put that in your pocket. - Not like this.
- Like that. - Maybe your back pocket. But it does have very intense
care instructions on it of things you're supposed to do, because as we've seen from a
lot of people's videos, This screen right here, while beautiful... (snapping sound) Oh, that is nice. The screen is very beautiful and nice, but it scratches incredibly easy. Like, if you took your fingernail and just went (imitating
scratching sounds) It would scratch it. Lincoln, you want to put it in your hand? - It looks good. - See how that feels? - That's weird. That's really weird. - Close it. (snapping sounds) - It's like hard to close. - A little hard to close?
- Yeah. - It doesn't like naturally
just (imitating shooting sound) go really fast together. It's a good size!
- Yeah. And then, this is just skinny. - Yeah, this is a skinny one right here. All right. - I Really want to try to scratch the screen with my fingernail. You think they make good
phone cases for this case yet? - No. How do you even make a phone case for it? I mean it'd just protect
the corners really, from when you drop it.
- Yeah. - But the inside, you
can't really protect. Now, it's giving us a tutorial
that hopefully we can skip. Done. Aye, there we go! (snapping sound) All right, we are into the phone. You can see on the outside
exactly the date and time, so, it does have a
screen that's right here. The back side is just the camera on it. Oh, it's not even showing up. If you touch it, you can see it. There we go. And part of the butterfly is on there. Swipe to unlock. (background noise drowns out other sounds) That's cool that you can use
these apps on the outside. And then, what happens
when you open it up? Cool. Just goes right to it.
- That's cool. - This phone is pretty beautiful. It's definitely advancing tech in 2019 and like what are the possibilities of the future of cell phones. I think it's really cool how it folds up. (snapping sound) Lincoln, do you want to
give it a little scratch in the corner down there?
- Yes, yes. I'm trying. - [Dan] It doesn't scratch. Oh, okay. There's a little bit of
indentations on there. - [Lincoln] Oh yeah. Like that's.
- [Dan] You can see it. - [Lincoln] You can see that. - [Dan] You barely scratched it. You can definitely see it. That is definitely one
of the downsides of this. If you took it and you
put it in your pocket and you had like little sand in there or-- - Like I always have
a pencil in my pocket. - Pencil, yeah. I never have a pencil in my pocket, but, there's definitely some limitations, especially when you're
paying $2,000, $3,000, whatever this thing might cost you, which is a lot. But, on a positive note, this is pushing technology further and encouraging companies to make things that are innovative and creative. So this might be like, might not be the final thing right now, but, it should encourage other companies to make something awesome. So, we had an interesting idea. The one thing that you see on here and you see on all the Galaxy Folds, is this butterfly. What would it look like if we cut the butterfly out of the screen? - That would ruin the phone. - That would ruin the phone. Very good observation. We're going to attempt to cut
a butterfly shape out of it, just like the screensaver, and then see if the butterfly can still flap its wings like this, and if the main part of the phone can still flap its wings like this. We have this knife and we have this knife. We need a bigger tool. We are gonna cut a butterfly out of it. This just sounds so stupid. I love it. (background noise drowns out other sounds) - Yeah. - [Dan] What did we cut open? Do you remember? - We cut open a Ferbie. (somber piano music) - [Dan] Oh, the Ferbie and it cried. - A camera. (energetic techno music) And a handgun. (energetic techno music) - We took the handgun through the airport and I got in trouble with TSA because I had a gun in my bag. - But, it was all taken apart. It was all taken apart,
there were no bullets, but, I got banned from the TSA pre list for like a year and a half. (dramatic orchestral music) (sawing noise) [Dan] Oh! (background noise drowns out other sounds) - [Dan] Oh, it's still working, kind of. (yelling excitedly) (melancholy music) - It's almost to the last part. Oh, there's a butterfly! Yes! (melancholy music) It like actually popped out a little bit. - [Lincoln] Wow! - Oh, hope it works. It looks so cool. It didn't fall into the yucky water stuff. I'm glad we put the board on there and some screws around it. (maniacal laughing) We cut a butterfly out of it. And what's cool, is on the butterfly, you've got part of the camera on the back, just like sitting right there. - [Lincoln] Yeah. - [Dan] Will it fly? Check it out. (crunching sounds) - (sucking through teeth) Oh. - That hurts you, the noise? Well, you can see the hinge on the back. You can see the hinge when it turns (crunching sounds) It turns, but, it probably
has a limited number of times you can turn it, open it and shut it. But, amazing. Will this one fold? (snapping sounds) You guys should know, lithium-ion batteries are something that you don't really want to mess with. You don't want to
puncture them with things. Since it's been sitting
here, since we came home, it's been about an hour. And you can see it bubbling, like some of the lithium-ion battery stuff is bubbling out of it. You can see it on both
sides where the battery was. On that side it just starts to look moldy. It looks like there's just
mold growing on it quickly, but really, it's the acid from
the lithium-ion batteries. - [Lincoln] Yeah, don't touch that. - [Dan] You can already tell. The back is already kind of coming off and if we open it up. Look at that. - [Lincoln] There's a battery right there. That's like. - [Dan] That is the battery. - [Lincoln] That's the coolest
part of the phone, I think. - That is really cool and there's a ribbon right there that probably comes
off like a little Lego. Can I open up the backside? (sucking through teeth) Oh, look at that. Another layer. Dude, if we can open this
up almost layer by layer. Let's see. (snapping sound) (gasping in unison) - That was so crazy.
(laughing) Okay, I feel like we can give this away. This is the actual screen. Underneath that, clearly,
is just this metal part. Does that come off too, easily? (crunching sound)
Oh! - What is this?
- (yelling excitedly) - How many layers to a butterfly? This is the This is the part that probably feels, the touch part of it. We can give that away too. We've got two giveaways. If you want one of these two butterflies, go to our twitter and we'll give it away to somebody that wants one of these two. We'll mail them to somebody. We love being able to do videos like this, where we're able to cut open unique tech. - [Dan] Let's go. English. English. Okay. No, I said I wanted English. English, okay. English. Okay. - You keep pressing the Chinese one. You keep pressing that when
you actually press okay. - Was I really pushing it wrong? - Yeah. - And then, don't forget
about the other one. We cut open a turtle
shell with a water jet. - Oh, yeah! Look at that. I got to take the other-- - [Dan] Oh, you stole
the wooden butterfly. You can give it to the
girls and they can paint it. - Or I'll just keep it. - [Dan] Oh, you can keep it, yeah. 