*weeb mumbling* Wow. Are you serious? You're watching anime? [Oh, No. Nyet! Nyet! ;-;] hehe pshh Why don't you guys stop watching some baby kids cartoons and watch a real movie ok? pshh. C'mon. C'mon guys hehe hmph watching kids movies. HE. Frickin losers... but wait today's video was sponsored by Cruchyroll! Sit down turtle and let me tell you a little story about my journey with anime It all began eons ago in the sacred year of 14 the year that I was living at high school as a senior aka the absolute kings of children, okay? So one day I rock up to school completely gonked out like I showed up disheveled clothes not ironed properly hair's a mess sunken eyes and I was probably drooling and I heard the chatter of the other students of the of the... of the NORMIES Maybe he was studying all night. Is Maaz homeless? Wait! Maybe this could be a new challenge we haven't heard about #HoboChallenge *sniff* Little did they know. HEhehe That I had binged anime the entire night. [Cool!] I walked up to a fellow weeb, I mean big eyed cartoon enthusiast and discussed with him the findings on my extensive research. Oh my God, dude Did you see that last set? Dude when they managed to work together like oh my God? and from the corner of my eye I see them, the normies somehow every time we were talking about anime they managed to butt in and add their unwanted opinion It usually went along the lines of why watch anime it's for kids or I've seen some anime it looks so weird! [Please, listen to NightCore.] So much disgust for something they couldn't even understand and look: I can't blame them They just weren't as sophisticated as I was. [Where's Pickle Maaz?] okay to be honest It was actually kind of annoying when they kept banging on anime. like bruh, you haven't even watched it How would he even know if it was weird or kid-friendly Nina, please? I try to convince them that anime is not actually his niche as it seems. We're not stupid there's a reason there are hundreds of thousands of people enjoy anime I wanted to convince people to give anime a real shot and that's the entire reason I made an anime channel. Wait, what you have an anime channel? *normie turtle laugh* Wow, that's so cringe Turtle You are the reason why turtles should go extinct- Anyway as I was saying the modern cartoons [You little-] just don't quite cut it out for me like don't get me wrong shows like Gravity Falls, Steven Universe and Adventure Time are absolutely fantastic And they excel in making the characters incredibly likable, but dang dude. They are so slow with the pacing of their story. Especially Steven Universe like my guy, it's been years And I still feel like I haven't progressed anywhere Come on. The exception to this or at least the first one that comes to mind anyway is Avatar The Last Airbender This is the one show which had memorable characters rich universe and a fantastic story progression and I know you can argue that this is Western anime and look if it was I had hoped that there would be more shows like this but unfortunately I haven't really found any western shows that can satisfy that itch not even a Rick and Morty *highly intellectual spech in background* and that's exactly why I'm into anime I've been watching it for 20 years now and there's nothing that can hype me up so quickly and consistently than anime and listen here's a free life hack for you H-e-n-wait( you think we are children you dumb peice of weeb?) , wait a minute and search for a show called My Hero Academia I want you guys to watch the first three episodes of it OK? It's about an hour (m8 please I have memes to watch) So it shouldn't be too long and don't pull the excuse of you don't have time like mate, you're watching a video about a guy(*cough* weeb *cough*) telling you about anime so we both know you're not spending time productively once you watch the first three episodes come back to this video (can i watch memes instead please?) to this timestamp and answer the poll on the top right corner Did you enjoy the first three episodes of my hero academia? Please be honest and answer only if you watched it OK? Don't lie. It's a sin. Wait. I found it. What is this? AMaazing reviews? (Turtle.. do you know what suffering you brought to us?) Oh, my god. All right. That's it. (I feel your pain) Get in the pot. YOU get in the pot.(SHOTS FIRED OOH SNAP CALL THE FIRE BRIGADE CUZ SOMEONE GOT BURNED) (WHAT HAVE YOU DONE TO TURTLE) [I will kill you For that! Killing is a sin!] OK, fine. The AMaazing wasn't my first YouTube channel. My first attempt at YouTube fame was a channel called AMaazing reviews (dont you mean Ussr Of weebs?) WAIT wait wait wait hold on before you go and furiously start opening tabs and searching for the channel I've already rebranded it and made into my second channel if you're really curious. I've added the link in the description below I just made three reviews, and oh my god. They are... MAN. They are not good (what are you.. GAY?) (THIS IS SECRET VOICE MESSAGE SENT FROM THE USSR TO PLAN ASSASSINATION ON THE PRESIDENT ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)) I mean listen to this. Baby steps. Yeah sure I love babies. Yeah okay [Bish, wut? OK YOU FINNA DIE! Plus, what were you thinkin'?] D-Did I make a liking babies joke? (we know you like babies ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°) )What the heck was I thinking putting it into my first video ever? The media just finished with Shane Sawson so p-please don't come after me. I-I-I-I've changed. I-I now feel neutral about babies (WHAT IS JOHN CENA DOING IN MY ROOM HE IS SHOUTING 'ARE U SURE BOUT DAT') [ARE YOU SURE ABOUT THAT?!] *suspicious laughter* Imagine that on a shirt oh, man yeah, I'm totally hiding those videos after a few weeks I made the review channel because I wanted to share my passion for anime (WEEB honestly im a weeb myself ;-;) and infect the same love that I had to other people Ever since starting that channel one of my goals was to get sponsored by crunchyroll (you love us? ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°) ) So as you can imagine when they hit me up for this channel I can't even describe to you what I felt. Obviously I responded to them very calmly and professionally But then a hard cut to real life Maaz who was just like *weeb hijinks* (translated: my fellow weebs our dream of crunchy roll sponsering us is done ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°) MOM GET THE CAMERA! [Imagine this as a Meme.] So once again I'd like to thank crunchyroll so much for sponsoring this video Seriously guys if you go after crunchyroll.com/maaz M A A Z or click in the link in the description below You'll get a limited-time, two week, free trial of crunchyroll premium Not only that but you also have unlimited access to anime, manga and drama titles with all the anime episodes ad free and in 1080p let me tell you It's absolutely worth it. You'll also be supporting the anime industry as well, so it's a win-win ok? Speaking of which I've been kind of out of touch with the recent anime that's being pumped out So let me know in the comments below Which titles I should be looking out for or which shows that should be catching up on and depending on how many suggestions I get or how many people agree. I'll give some of them a try. Oh and Adam, James You're wrong. Tokyo ghoul is a good anime you freaking losers [But they have more subs tho! Don't get offended, Ok?] I honestly love anime so so much and I really want to see more people get introduced to it I can't wait to weeb out with you guys Big shout out to Huion too for the awesome Kamvas GT 221 Pro another animation pumped out by this beast I still think this tablet is fantastic Thank you so much and look guys give anime a real shot, ok? Alright? And with that stay amaazing everybody 