Thanks to Brilliant for supporting this episode
of SciShow. Go to Brilliant.org/SciShow to learn how you
can level up your STEM skills this year. Convincing a predator to attack might seem
counterproductive if you don’t want to be eaten. And getting them to attack your head might
seem like the absolute worst idea ever. But that’s exactly what these little guppies
do. They taunt larger fish and get them to attack
at their eyes. And that’s actually safer for them! Let me explain. Trinidadian guppies are eaten by bigger fish
called cichlids, which are ambush predators. So when a cichlid is hungry, it hides and
waits for a smaller fish to swim within reach. And then—boom! It’s like a yummy fish dinner was delivered
straight to its door. But these guppies have figured out how to
make the cichlids attack on their terms, allowing them to lure the predators into missing. First, they draw the cichlids’ attention
using conspicuous coloration: highly noticeable colors that get the hunter
looking where the guppy wants it to attack. But here’s the thing: If the guppies were
always conspicuously colored, they’d know where a cichlid would attack, but not when. Which is why they can change their color. And specifically, they can change the color
of their eyes. Normally, their irises are silver, but they
can turn them black. See, the color comes from cells that have
sacs of pigment inside. Melanin, the black pigment that guppies use
to change their eye color, is found in a special type of cell known as
a melanophore. And when melanin is at the center of the melanophore,
light can pass through most of the cell. But if it’s spread out, it creates a layer
that absorbs light and makes the cell look black. So when a guppy spots a predator, hormonal
and nervous responses signal their melanophores to rearrange. Proteins pull melanin from the center of each
cell out across the entire thing. And the whole eye goes black in about three
seconds. Those black eyes are much more noticeable,
so when a guppy changes its eye color, it’s basically daring the cichlid to aim
for its head. Which, I know, seems like the last place you’d
want to be bitten. But if the attack is aimed there instead of
its middle—where the cichlid would usually attack— the guppy can bend around its center to dodge
the predator. So basically, they use their eyes kind of
like a matador cape, luring danger into lunging at the wrong angle, and allowing the guppy to twist away at the
last second and escape. And the international team of researchers
who wrote about this amazing tactic in a 2020 Current Biology paper found that larger guppies are even better
at this, as their center pivot point is even further from their eyes. So they think this adaptation may have allowed
this species to evolve a bigger size overall. So next time you’re faced with a stressful
situation, consider tackling it like a guppy: head on. 