-Hello! Anybody here? You're walking down a dark corridor late at
night. It's a path you always take, but for some
reason you can't help but feel uneasy. You know it's safe, you're certain that there's
no one else, but you find yourself expecting that something will jump out from the shadows
once you turn the corner. Part of you winces, not daring to look as
you're about to turn... while your brain tells you that you're being irrational, your imagination
can't help but run wild. What if something is there? In today's Elements of Horror, we would like
to analyse the frightening horror movie scenes that play with your expectations of what is
hiding in the darkness. The ones in which you tell yourself:
Don't look. The horror movie genre has a lot of instances
where you know something bad is going to happen. From the start of a scene, our expectations
are built and guided towards the promise of a fright... And despite knowing this information, we still
fall victim to the scare. For some, this expectation is so palpable
that they close their eyes before anything is revealed. This fear is based on our agency-detection
mechanism. If we find ourselves in dark woods, a dark
alley, a dark corridor (even if it's in our own house) and we hear an unknown sound or
presence, our self-preservation instincts will set off and we become hyper alert. Without knowing if there is a threat, we decide
to be ready for one. And it's in this ambiguity where these scenes
thrive. We are given a suggestion that something might
happen, and we marinate in the uncertainty. It's a like a Schrodinger's cat of horror
where in this moment we are both safe and unsafe. -Nana...? So, what pattern could be used to create this
uncertainty? Well, we first have to establish the perspective. Who are we following? How much information is being presented on
the screen and who has access to it? Is the scare meant to be seen by the audience? The characters or both? Then, in comes the atmosphere. Is it calm, restrained, could you hear a pin
drop or is it chaotic and distracting? It doesn't need to feel claustrophobic to
work; it just has to feel unsafe. As if the threat could come from anywhere
at any time. This is a good breeding ground for the mind
to wander. In The Shining we follow behind Danny's perspective. We get to see everything he sees as he turns
into the empty hallways. So, if there is a scare, the audience and
the character will find out at the same time. Making every turn even more uneasy
In Hereditary, Peter wakes up on his bed in a dark room (being lit only by the moonlight
entering from the window) and he gets the feeling that something is wrong. Here, only the audience is allowed to see
what's really happening, the tension comes from knowing the character is oblivious to
the imminent danger hanging over him. In Jaws, the characters are unaware of the
lurking threat. The beach goers are lost to their own enjoyment
while chief Brody is observing the water...worried he's seconds away from an incident. Next is the build-up. How can these scenes make you feel worse? This can be done by prolonging it. Making the monster in your mind grow. You become alert to every sound: the wheels
from the tricycle, the beachgoers, the near silence of a room
-Mom... and your eyes are scanning, searching for
the possible area the threat can come from. Will it come from the left or the right? You are scared by the numerous possibilities
you're presenting yourself. And then...
the reveal... It can be a rising crescendo, a slow realisation
or a succession of glimpses. This is where we can differentiate the good
horror movies from the bad ones. Can it deliver the promise of fright or is
it just empty suspense? The unmotivated solution would be to build
the expectation and then release it with a manipulative sharp sound or musical cue. This is the easy way out, but audiences are
now very aware of it's overuse. It's just a jolt, the same way hearing a car
alarm can startle you. Finally, the true mark of a great horror movie
is what happens after the reveal. When you're shown something creepy and it
manages to transform it into something disturbing. -Hello Danny... The reveal of the twins is freighting but
it's not enough to avert your gaze. This initial scare makes you fall into a certain
comfort zone, so you think the ride is over, and you drop your guard. Then you're hit with the gruesome murder scene. It scares you when it knows it has your attention. Because the best horror movies know how to
divert your expectations, so they can trick you into looking at what you didn't want to
see. Thank you for taking the time to watch our
video. We invite you to like share and subscribe
if you haven't done so yet. We really hope you enjoyed our second video
in our Elements of Horror series. We will be releasing two more short video
essays like this one analyzing very specific aspects of the horror genre in the month of October. Today's musical composition was made by Eduardo
Gonzalez. If you like his work, you can find his information
down in the description. If you wish to support us so we can keep making
videos like this one, we invite you to check out our Patreon page. Until next time. 