(G)I-DLE Enters 'Mission Room' The First Room is Filled with Movie Props Does It Happen to Be
LA LA LAND...? Expecting x 333333
What will Happen Here? Sit down, quickly. (Director's force)
Be quiet x 4 (Summoning the real director)
Director! A hammer is over there. (Stern)
Sit down, quickly. Suddenly, NEVER BOOK is Ringing This room is for disturbance training. Learn vocal mimicry and make Hook confused. We have to try vocal mimicry. Soojin does it well, right? Right, Soojin x 2 Denying with Her Whole Face Hi~ I'm so surprised. Oh, this lady!(Meaning she knows her) Popular Vocal Actress, Kim Bomin Appears! Shout it out! (Clapping) Before your mission, I'll show you the highlight of my vocal mimicry. He cheated on me.
The World of the Married - Ji Seonwoo Love is not sin.
The World of the Married - Lee Taeoh Really Amazing Oh my, Ms. Ji~
The World of the Married - Uhm Hyojung Well, peanuts are 8,000 won.
When the Camellia Blooms - Dongbaek Suddenly Breaking Out of the TV(?) Totally Surprised Amazing~ Voice Actress, Kim Bomin Hi~ Dramatic Welcome I'm Kim Bomin, a voice actress. Q. Feeling about Meeting (G)I-DLE Here?
Meeting you for real makes me very nervous. I am a bit excited to meet you. Can I express how I feel? - Yes!
- Of course~ This is how I feel now. Passionate Cheers to Her Witty Sense It's really [Oh my god]! I enjoy the song so much. Why am I here today? I'll teach you the skill of vocal mimicry. Surprised Shushu Oh? It'll be a lot of fun! Can you do it? Yes~ I can do it~ Voice Actress Kim Bomin's Acting Lesson We're not only mimicking vocals. Actually, we need to copy actions, too. If you copy the action well,
you look similar to the one you mimic. Is anyone good at copying someone's action? Shaking Eyes Somebody is avoiding my eyes rapidly. That's Me Who can you copy, Miyeon? This lady~ Right This Lady Let me see her. Shuhua's Action Miyeon Will Mimic Let Me Show It Shuhua has two puppies, Haku and Mata. She acts to her puppies like this. If the puppies are here... MaRRRa~~ Hakku~~~ Possessed by Shuhua Perfectly? When did I do that? You do that! - Right?
- Yes. Real Action of Haku & Mata's Mom? MaRRRa~~ Haku     Mata Perfectly the same.
(So funny) Praising Miyeon's Method Approach I think all of you are already prepared. From now on! Kim Bomin's Vocal Mimicry Special Course Begins! Bomin's One Point Lesson
Catch the characters' unique actions & voices The Most Popular Drama during the First Half of 2020,
 Character & Vocal Mimicry This is it~ [Clapping] a.k.a. Master of Vocal Mimicry
Let me show you first. - No, nothing happened. Amazing! - You two must be really good friends? - Do you even share such things? Amazed in Mute The Demonstration Ends Here! Truly amazing! Like this and this? To whom should I ask to do it? I thought of Yuqi. Yuqi is Chosen! Good Choice A Sudden Change To do this role, the most important thing is breathing! Breathing! The World of the Married - Catching Ji Seonwoo
1. Hug the body with the hands comfortably 2. Breathe out through the inverted triangular mouth 3. Neither cry nor smile Put 2 spoonfuls of worries
between the eyes. Like This? Already Funny Shall we try a short line first? - Having fun? Having fun... x 3 Having fun... I'm having fun~ Next, put the hands together With the touched face~ I can't do it~ Passionate Lecturer's
Unstopping Lesson Toward the temple~ Fun Enough to Feel Dizzy I want to see her action now. (Fully possessed) Having fun? (As she learned)
Putting hands together and sweeping the temple. It's just Yuqi herself... It's Just the World of Yuqi I did it really hard! Yuqi Reinterpreted It into Her Own Style I love it~ Master of Animation Dubbing
Copying Animation Characters' Voices Now Do you know 'Robot Cat' in *oraemon? Of Course, We Do Copying 3 Characters' Voices
in the Animation Jin9: Wow, *oraemon!
What's that? *oraemon: No, Jin9, no! *oraemon: We'll be in trouble
if Mom sees it. Jin9's Mom: Jin9, Mom is here~ *oraemon: OMG! Mom is here! *oraemon: Fly, Helicopter~! Playing Triple Roles / Out of This World Just pretend you're cutest in the world... Wow! *oraemon! Just So Amazing I think Soyeon can do it. Without Asking, Pointing Soyeon The Leader is Suffering Forever I'm Jin9. Play *oraemon. Call! OMG! In the case of *oraemon, Robot Cat's
Groaning Sound is the Point Jing9! (Somehow broken)
Minnie's Jin9 Minnie is cute~ Mom can't see it~ Human Xerox, Minnie! Oh~   Great! Jin9! Now, Who's Jin9's Mom? Mommy, You! There x 3 (Dumbfounded)
My voice is not for Mom. Just pretend you're a very loving mom. Jin9, Mom is here~ Jin9's Mom is Very Kind Jin9, Mom is here~ (Very sweet) OMG! Jin9's mom today is quite sexy~ Sexy~~ Ready~
Action Cute~ Feeling Burdensome,
Speaking in Alien Language You were immersed in your emotion now. You were very empathic, right? Wow, *oraemon~
What's this? (Minraemon)
Jin9, Mom can't see it~ (Mom appears)
Jin9, Mom is here~~ Well done! You did so well!
Jin9's Mom, Soojin, Did It All! A few minutes ago, you said,
'How can I do it?' For NEVERLAND,
(G)I-DLE Does Everything Trying Hard Good, good! You are doing far much better than I thought. Thank you so much. What Message Will (G)I-DLE Receive This Time? Using the mimicry skill you've learned,
complete your favorite drama. If you get the lines wrong or laugh,
you'll fail the mission! Isn't it too harsh for foreigners? (Selective foreigner)
Why're you doing this to foreigners? I can't speak Korean well! Director!!! The Most Important Thing of the Mission! We can get the lines wrong! If you get the lines wrong,
you'll fail the mission. Guys, don't worry. I'll help you with the mimicry skills. Yes. I'll help you with your mission. Go for the Mission! Any Drama You Wanna Try to Practice? Shuhua Raises the Arms 'Temptation of Wife' Put a point here and sing. Why did you meet me~ Wow, it's a great song~ Did you watch it? Q. Why did you choose 'Temptation of Wife?'
I watched it when I was little. Since it was so impressive,
I wanted to try it. I'll make pairs for you. Shuhua & Yuqi Team (I'm watching you) (Let's do it well) What Kind of Chemistry Will They Show Yes. Soyeon & Minnie Team (Sso~~ Cool Partners) Last, Soojin & Miyeon Team (G)I-DLE Ver. Temptation of Wife Oh, your spot here is similar to the character... You're Watching (G)I-DLE 's Acting Practice Now (Min Sohee X) Min Soojin from the Birth? I'll go home first because I have things to do. You two just quarrel and fight. What're you doing? Suddenly Hand-to-Hand Fight What're YOU doing? *They're Not Fighting But Acting Hard Let's wrap up the practice now. Passionate Practice is Over Time to Set the Order of Fulfilling the Mission Which team will do it first? (G)I-DLE is Noisy Avoid the First!! I think everybody wants to do it first. Relax, Girls
We Prepared Something for You The loser team does (the mission) first? If you knock down the wooden blocks,
you'll do it first. (Shaky)   (Risky) Teacher, we'll do it first! Ready, go~
(Soyeon begins it first) SSG~ Soyeon Succeeded Easily Please, Shuhua~ Time Limit, 60 Seconds!! Somehow Uneasy Shuhua~~ #Using One Hand is the Rule Why is it so heavy? Shuhua! Don't stress me out! The time is running out! Shuhua is cheating~ Wait... Anyway, Falling Down... This Team Has Won without Touching the Blocks What a Mess Shuhua's Big Picture to Try It First... Set the 2nd Team Go! Time Limit, 60 Seconds
Miyeon vs. Soyeon (Focusing)
The blocks are chaotic. Arranging the Messy Blocks in Order? I mistakenly put it on! NO!!! Tidy Miyeon Couldn't Bear the Mess It's Not Fair I just arranged it. Failed Without Starting It's okay. We're the second. Finally, the Order Has Been Fixed First
Yuqi & Shuhua's Team Be careful. x 3
You could get hurt. (I'm an angry woman) (Focusing with the philtrum) Don't you shout 'Action!'?  I'll shout 'Action' now. Min Sohee   /    Shin Aeri
Aeri doubts the relationship between her husband and Min Sohee.
Aeri shouts in Sohee's office. Ready~ Action! (Fling down at once) (Startled) - Bad woman! - What are you doing? - Are you crazy? - What the heck are YOU doing? - It's yours, right? (Evidence) - What are you doing
calling my husband at dawn? Did I do something at dawn...?
Disconcerted I didn't call him out;;
Disconcerted by Shuhua's Real Acting Wow~ Amazing!! Are They Real Actresses or What?! Shuhua's Super Angry Acting
Leaves Deep Impression (Acting Genius, Shuhua Robot) By Shuhua's fiery acting,
in an instance, Yuqi was really disconcerted. Great job, guys! Wow, Actress Yeh~ Now Miyeon & Soojin's Team Miyeon will use this mop as a prop. Everybody is Expecting Miyeon's Acting Shin Aeri     /     Min Sohee Aeri becomes Ms. Mop in Aeri's office.
She tries to leave urgently, but Sohee grabs her. Ready~ Action!! - Clean the office, first. - What? - You still can't comprehend what's going on. I'm the boss and you're a janitor. - Ask me whatever you want. (Mopping up angrily) - I'll wash your clothes and underwear, too. Lovely Wrapping Up Can't-Miss the Mighty Mopping Up Not (G)I-DLE
But (Actress)I-DLE We haven't finished it yet, right? Last
Minnie & Soyeon's Team Shin Aeri     /     Min Sohee
Aeri doubts her husband & Sohee's relationship. Sohee provokes Aeri
and Aeri finally explodes. Now, let's start. Ready~ Action!! - Did you covet what I have that much? - Are you enraged because of this name card? - Do you think I did something to your husband? - Tell me... (Oh, grabbing the back of her neck) - What you two did... Tell me!!! Startled Our members are doing great~ The last team acted as the real drama. You Can't Help But Clap for the Great Acting Now, all 3 teams!!! All of you succeeded!!! All of us are actresses~ That's right~
Celebrating the Success with Self-praise As the director's eyes, Shushu Showed Enraged Acting Soyeon Showed Perfect Acting of the Real Drama One of the Two,
Who's the Best Actress?! Shuhua with a Drastic Action
and Perfect Voice Tone Soyeon with Detailed Emotional Expression I'll award to the best actress.
Useless But Still Want the Honor Today's Best Actress! (NEVERLAND Award Coming Close to Oscar) 2020, the Best Actress of Voice Mimicry! The winner is~ Shuhua~~ (OMG)   (Me?) I did it hard!!! I've never dreamed of it. Let's congratulate Shuhua
who showed the perfect acting! (Congrat) Thank you~ I've never thought
I would receive the best actress award! All of you tried it so hard.
I know that. Good job, everybody. (Whisk) Q. Feeling about receiving the award?
I'll try harder. And I'll show a better performance. Girls, don't give up. Anybody can be a great actress. Don't give up.
(Hope preacher) What Message Will They Receive Now? Congratulate on your fulfilling the mission. Find the key card to lift Hook's curse. You can see by closing the left eye. Closing the Left Eye Like This...? Where is it? (Closed the eye but still can't see) Not Me~ (G)I-DLE is Fallen into Mental Breakdown Together Covering the Left Eye,
All of Them are Searching the Card NEVERLAND, Join the Seach~ Everybody is Looking for the Key Card (Searching Hard)   (Where are you?) I have no idea... Cover the left eye? (+ Light)
It's Dark ON(?) the Lamp? Anything? Miyeon, doesn't it look like an eye? Search here!
The Members are Approaching the Light Found the Key Card Finally, Obtaining
the Precious Card Successfully - It's a butterfly.
- Dance of a white butterfly. * Dance of White Butterfly * The Left Eye Was Right Here! Insert the card to the slot of NEVER BOOK. - Oh, here!
- Here! Amazing
(A perfect fit) Thanks to Fulfilling the First Mission,
the NEVERLAND Phonograph That Lost Sound Begins to Play Music Again We've found the first card. Catch me~ Catch you~
We're Card Captor I-DLE (Super hard)
5 More Cards to Go? What Does the Number Mean? Dumbfounded We'll know when we try the next one, right? Let's Go to Complete the 2nd Mission! Let's go~ Wait! Watch Actress Yeh Before You Go~ I'd like to attribute this glory to NEVERLAND... 