Alright let's get down to brass tacks. Yellow is for residential, red is for commercial,
green is for greenspace. This...... is vastly superior to this...... 90% of the time. You can go now By far the most disastrous, nonsensical, and
irresponsible aspect of Suburban-style development is the complete separation of people from
the services they use. So many problems - be it the traffic and excessive
vehicle emissions, the money down the drain on cars, houses needing copious amount of
space for driveways, businesses needing even more copious amount of space for parking lots,
and suburbs lacking a sense of community, all stem in large part from the fact that
we now tend to build humongous, homogenous housing developments in one area, and humongous,
homogenous business plazas in another area, usually on the other side of a massive highway. This kind of "zoning" - often referred to
a "Euclidean" zoning, began as a way to ensure people didn't live too close to the hazards
posed by things like industrial factories - in other words, separate people from their
workplaces. It made sense to get people far away from
the fumes, soot, and machinery of steel mills and the like, but we are no longer in the
thick of the industrial revolution, and our zoning should reflect that. The extent to which we have accommodated this
kind of development is actually hilarious. We build enormous, elaborate freeways, parking
garages, and excessively wide roads all to allow us to live really far away from buildings
we ourselves constructed and need to get to. It's a great example of how thinking big isn't
as good as thinking smart. Instead of this horribly expensive and unpleasant
infrastructure, we should just allow smaller scale commercial operations to be dotted throughout
the places that people actually live. This way, the average distance from a given
household to a given service is greatly reduced. Ideally, this distance equates to a 10-15
minute walk for 90% of people in a city. For the times when you really do need to get
to a commercial node that is more than 15 minutes of walking, public transit should
do the trick. This mixed-use, heterogenous development patterns
is, by far, the most powerful tool for building walkable, environmentally friendly, socially
cohesive cities. It also does something else very powerful
- it gives people more choice. Each of these commercial nodes will, in reality,
be slightly different than one another. Let's say this red area is a bit of a hub
for tech starts ups, and the purple area is known for it's amazing Sushi, and the blue
area has a massive football stadium at it's core. Let's also say there is a hypothetical person
who is hoping to work for a tech startup and also has a particular fondness of sushi (preposterous
scenario, I know, but let's be imaginative here). If this person is completely uninterested
in watching football, then they can take that into consideration by trying to live over
here, for instance. Someone else, who likes football and steak,
might chose to live over here I know I'm simplifying things here, but you
get the point. Just a quick interjection here to say that
in my Line video, I claimed onscreen that the area of a circle is 4 pi r squared by
accident. This is reason enough to unsub from my channel
and never come back here again. I do beg your forgiveness. But if you are enjoying the video, consider
expressing yourself by liking and subscribing! Also, Check out Alan Fisher's videos on Urbanism. He's much more knowledgeable and way funnier
than I am. Anyway, When everyone lives in one place, and all
of the commercial activity is in another place, there simply isn't a whole lot of leeway to
optimize your living situation based on your preferences. You know you have to go to the massive shopping
plaza for most of you things anyway, so why not just purchase a car and commit to the
communal commute. Just for some proof of concept, this is an
actual zoning map of Toronto, Canada. I'll keep it brief, but the red ish colour
indicated a "Commercial-Residential" zone - essential mixed-use, an area where people
are allowed to both live and provide services. The yellow zone is called R1 zoning - it means
single family residential only. As you can see, R1 zoning completely dwarfs
the mixed use zoning in square area by like a factor of 10. This particular distribution is actually not
too bad, however, because the mixed-use zones sort of form a network throughout the single-family
zoning. I simply propose that these networks of red
should be far more extensive and far more common across cities, like this. What's far more likely to be the case in any
North American city built mostly after the 1960s is something that look like this: This
is Toronto's next door neighbour, The City of Mississauga. This map should make your eyes fall out - it's
a sea of yellow and there are like 750,000 people that live here. The only mixed use zoning is here in purple. The Grey zone is "Industrial/Commercial" which
looks about as pleasant as it sounds. For those of you out there who think this
is just some sort of utopian pipe dream, it totally isn't. This is how communities were built for centuries. If you have ever salivated over the beauty,
charm, and liveliness of European cities, or even just older parts of North American
Cities, I can assure you that mixed-use development is part of the reason why - the zoning layout
is what enables these charming streets to exist. Unfortunately, this kind of zoning is so ingrained
in North American Planning that it seems to run through some people's veins now. There is so much pushback against attempts
at mixed-use development from people who resent the idea of anything commercial in their neighbourhood. In some respects, these people are right to
be scared of commercial development nearby. Their idea of commercial development might
be something reminiscent of this - a massive footprint warehouse with an absolute unit
of a parking lot outside, which will inevitably create lots of noise and fumes because it
caters to cars, not people on foot. I don't want anything like that near me either. What we need to get out heads around is the
smaller scale stuff. One great advantage of building on smaller
scale is that it actually becomes easier to integrate a diversity of services within a
given area. Let's take Kingston, Ontario, for example. In the older portion of the city, there are
non-residential buildings dotted throughout what is otherwise single-family homes, some
of which are probably converted into apartments. This here is a restaurant or pub in the middle
of a quaint neighbourhood. It doesn't "disrupt the character" of the
neighbourhood at all - it's a pretty modest building which houses a pretty modest operation. The people in this neighbourhood have easy
access to a local business. The money they spend stays in the local economy. If this is a pub, it might serve as a social
"anchor point" the way they often do in the UK and Europe. Anyways, the best part of this? Patrons from the neighbourhood never have
to worry about a designated driver - everyone there can become as intoxicated as they are
comfortable with, provided they can keep relatively quiet on the nice walk home. A few blocks away from a business like this
are houses like this. The lawn isn't obnoxious, and there isn't
a tarmac of a driveway out front, but it's also not a colossal condo tower like in Vancouver
or whatever. See, you need a certain minimum population
density for places like the pub to survive, but it doesn't actually have to be that dense. If a pub doesn't want to have an on-site parking
lot the size of a basketball court, then there needs to be a critical number of people nearby
who can get there without a car. Medium density is clearly enough to get the
job done. Also in the neighbourhood is the beautiful
and reasonably sized Rosemount Inn which easily fits the character of the neighbourhood. I believe this is an example of "Italianate"
architecture, by the way, which is a personal favourite. Another minute or two of walking and you're
here - this is a public school for Kids from Kindergarten to grade 8. See it's not just businesses that should be
dotted throughout residences, but services too. I'm willing to bet a lot of these kids can
just walk to school - something that gives them confidence and autonomy, but also a sense
of place. The fact that their school is in this neighbourhood
shows them that this city belongs to them, too. And that is really the spirit of mixed-use
development - sharing space with people, people who might be different than us. Maybe they're different in age, or socioeconomic
status, or whatever it is. I really believe that sharing space goes a
long way in building a sense of community and a sense of empathy among neighbours. When people fear commercial enterprises being
built nearby, they are probably worried about the noise and commotion of things like night-clubs
and manufacturing centres. You definitely shouldn't be allowed to put
a night club right next to someone's house without their consultation. BUT, I think we can all agree that quaint
bed and breakfast, ou peut-être une petite boulangerie, won't rub anyone the wrong way. Something like a bakery would probably be
closed in the evenings anyway, and who doesn't love the smell of fresh bread? Mixed-use development is the most important
ingredient in creating walkability. Interestingly, there are groups of people
who actually try to measure walkability! (And just to clarify, this is genuinely not
a paid advertisement) [Walkscore.com](http://walkscore.com) is an amazing website that ranks how walkable
a given area of a city is. I have honestly spent a copious amount of
time on this website. I believe I'm correct in saying that it's
mostly geared towards cities in North America. As we can see with Kingston, the old part
of the city we were just in is remarkably more walkable than the newer development which
now surrounds it - which is what you'll find in like 99% of North American cities. Anyway I can't really think of an outro, So
yeah just like  and subscribe! See you next time. 