“But if you had
regular hands, you'd be like
everyone else.” You know you’re watching
a Tim Burton film if… It’s Burtonesque. So what does
that mean exactly? “Burtonesque” is a unique
blend of surrealist nightmare and childlike whimsy inspired
by German Expressionism, suburban Americana,
and a gothic sensibility. "I've spent so long
in the darkness, I'd almost forgotten
how beautiful the moonlight is." The German
Expressionism movement from
he post-WWI period is defined by
distorted or slanting shapes, high-contrast light and dark,
and prominent shadows. Burton pays homage to
German expressionist classics like The Cabinet of
Dr. Caligari and Metropolis And like these older films,
Burton’s work creates the sense that you’re
in a stylized dream-- giving visual
form to emotion. “There was just something
about the dynamics and the shapes with the shadows
and the light and dark and and, you know,
like Fritz Lang… you know those old films
that really captured a spirit and a feeling of
like being in a dreamscape or inside of
somebody’s mind.” He’s said that he
doesn’t even remember his
own dreams, but that “there's so
much strange in real life that it often
seems like a dream.” There’s also a clear
gothic influence in Burton’s work. Gothic literature is
preoccupied with death and Burton’s
movies often feature ghosts, skeletons,
and cemeteries. We also see the gothic
influence in his love of tortured or
alienated heroes. “Soon as we get settled,
we'll build you a darkroom in the basement. Okay?” “My whole life
is a dark room.” Edward Scissorhands
is Burton’s spin on the most famous gothic
character of all time -- Victor Frankenstein’s
monster. “Etiquette tells us
just what is expected of us and guards us
from all humiliation and discomfort." These influences might
seem to paint a picture of deep existential angst --
but Burton’s films have an underlying sense of fun,
wonder and optimism. To him, thinking
about death doesn’t have
to be tragic. He’s said he feels
inspired by the Day of the Dead’s
positive, celebratory spirit. So counterintuitively,
Burton’s ghoulish, morbid movies
are life-affirming. “You set me free. Now l can do
the same for you.” Just look at how he
chose ends Beetlejuice— a film that’s all
about dead people haunting the living—
with a singalong to “Jump in the Line.” [Singing] “Jump in the line. Rock your body in time. It’s set in a gothic suburbia. Burton grew up
in the suburbs of Burbank, California. Thankfully, there was
a graveyard at the end of his street -- a haven
he described as “a good place to think.” "Where do you
keep the spirits?” This mix of normalcy
and creepiness in the director’s childhood
explains his take on the suburbs. We usually think of
suburban America as hyper-traditional
and boring, but Burton reveals it’s actually
really weird. Edward Scissorhands
is an expression of the alienation and inability
to communicate Burton felt in his neighborhood. “You feel kind of
different and isolated and you don’t feel like
you fit into your surroundings and society.” The film is set in
a picture-perfect, Levittown-like suburb
complete with a local Avon lady. “Avon calling.” But as it introduces
a fantastical outsider into this world,
Edward doesn’t really feel like
the bizarre one. “What time does the
barbecue begin?” “Barbecue?” “I'll bring coleslaw.” “I'll bring dessert.” “And I will bring
the ambrosia salad.” It’s the superficially
cheery, cold suburbanites who are the true freaks --
and Edward is the confused anthropologist trying
to make sense of their irrational customs. “Soup’s on.” “I thought this was
a shish kabob.” “What?” “I thought this was
a shish kabob.” “Yeah it is shish kabob. It was a figure of speech, Ed. You gotta learn not to
take things so literally.” The protagonist is a
misunderstood outcast. Burton grew up
feeling like an outcast. “It’s like when
people are telling you something but
it’s not the way you feel, it makes you feel very
interior, it makes you feel very whatever,
sad or lonely or weird.” He was labeled as
dark and weird, when he didn’t feel that
he was especially weird. “I found it quite strange,
just because you like monster movies, people
thought you weird, you know?” “That’s weird.” Many of his main characters
reflect these feelings that he had as a young person. “Live people ignore
the strange and unusual. I myself am strange
and unusual.” Writer Philip Brubaker
has said, “Burton’s heroic
characters are troubled loners,
isolated from the rest of the world… Batman is a recluse, as is Edward Scissorhands. Pee-wee Herman
is a happy loner.” Burton takes us into
the outcast’s point of view. At first, like an exotic pet,
Edward fills a void in his neighbors’ unfulfilling
“normal” lives… “That was the single
most thrilling experience of
my whole life.” But over time, this
rigid community is too closed-minded
to accept any person who doesn’t subscribe
to their norms. “It seems clear that
his awareness of what we call reality is
radically underdeveloped.” Edward’s house looks
strange to his neighbors, but of course this
building is far more beautiful than one
of these cookie-cutter, all-the-same boxes. Ironically, others interpret
Edward as violent “Call a doctor, he
skewered Kim” “No” when in fact he’s,
as the movie poster emphasizes,“an
uncommonly gentle man.” His scissorhands are
symbolic in this way -- they appear scary or
destructive like weapons, but they’re really
tools for creation. “You see, before he
came down here, it never snowed. And afterwards, it did." And this is a stand-in
for the artist, whose different personality
is the sign of a powerful gift. In his films, Burton
usually gives his misfits a way out of their
oppressive environments. So maybe this is him
subconsciously offering his younger self
that way out, or reflecting how his
own art did set him free. It looks like a
Tim Burton film. Whether you’re
watching stop-motion animation or live actors,
there’s a cohesive Burton aesthetic that you’d
recognize anywhere. Burton began his
career as an animator for Disney, where
he worked on movies like The Fox and the Hound. But it wasn’t the right fit --
he said that he didn’t enjoy drawing perfect cartoon
animals and “couldn’t even fake the Disney style.” Burton’s own artistic
style is more surreal and exaggerated. “I love animated characters
that have no eyes.” The director has criticized
the CGI monsters of today, arguing that they’re
“missing the human element.” His monsters of
Beetlejuice appear distinctly, intentionally DIY. Even Burton’s live-action
characters have the feel of being hand-drawn,
like they’re illustrations come to life. Burton never skimps on
wardrobe or make-up, which are key to
bringing his particular vision to the screen. Characters typically have
accentuated cheekbones, big eyes, dark undereye
circles, and chalky white complexions. “The light concealing
cream goes on first. Then you blend, and
blend, and blend. Blending is the secret.” They often wear black and
white stripes or top hats. “But the absolute best
way to travel, is by hat." Another mark of Burton’s
signature aesthetic is… The Nightmare Face. These terrifying faces
remind us Burton’s dream worlds are
always part-nightmare. There’s a Dark Blonde. “Perhaps there’s a bit
of witch in you, Katrina.” “Why do you say that?” “Because you have
bewitched me.” Not unlike some other
iconic movie directors, Burton has a thing
for blondes. “It was yellow hair
you was looking for, sir?” He likes to put brunette
actors into blonde wigs. But the Burton
Blonde is a dark, peculiar twist on
the wholesome All-American type, “Butterfingers”
[Sniffs] “Mmm.” just as he reinterprets
the American suburb through his dark filter. It’s a kids’ movie…
that’s too scary for kids. After Batman and its
sequel Batman Returns, Burton wasn’t hired to direct
for Warner Brothers again, for the same reason
he’d been fired by Disney. “Can you be scary?” “What do you think of this?” [Screams] Despite his childlike tone,
his creations could be too dark for young kids. “Everything in this room
is eatable, even I'm eatable! But that is called
"cannibalism," my dear children,
and is in fact frowned upon in most societies.” Burton’s films are
heavily influenced by the horror movies
he watched as a child. But this can result in
creations more suited for teens and
young adults. It’s through a child’s eyes. Watching a Burton film
is like viewing the world through the eyes of
a very sensitive and unusual child who’s
making sense of reality for the first time. “I cannot make
your heads bigger, but your children's
heads, I can take them and crack
them open." He’s said, quote,
“People say I am stuck in childhood,
but it's not that… you only get to see
the strangeness of life once, in
a truly fresh way. I think the films
are sometimes a kind of
symbol for that." Many of his story designs
are based on his own childhood ideas,
sketches, and experiences. They include specific
memories he’s pieced together. “He was a great
dog, a great friend." He'll always
be there victor." "I don't want him
in my heart. I want him
here with me.” There’s an innocence
in Burton’s movies, but at the same time
he’s not reflecting the way adults
think children are. "Sometimes adults
don't know what they're talking about.” He's showing that kids
have deep questions; they experience pain;
they see the strangeness of the world. They’re intelligent
and nuanced. "Some of his dreams
are prophetic, but mostly they're
about clothes." "Prophetic as in, he can
see into the future?" A large part of childhood
is spent trying to understand who we are or
who we want to be. Burton brings
the audience back to a time when
they were trying to understand themselves “A chance to find
out who they are and thusly…who I am” and reminds them
to summon the child’s creativity into
their lives. It’s a low-budget blockbuster. “It's showtime” Tim Burton may
be known for his idiosyncratic
artsy style, but he’s also a wizard
at turning a big profit on a minimal budget. His feature
directorial debut, Pee-wee’s Big Adventure,
grossed 40 million on a six to seven
million dollar budget. It was followed by
Beetlejuice three years later, which made a profit
that was nearly five times what it cost. “I’m the ghost with
the most, babe.” Thanks to Burton’s
winning streak, in 1989 he was picked
up by Warner Brothers to direct their
latest superhero film. Batman broke box
office records and raked in 251 million,
making it the biggest movie of the year. “Hubba, hubba, hubba! Money, money, money! Who do you trust? Me? I'm givin' away free money.” Even with high budget
films, like Batman and its sequel
Batman Returns, Burton kept excess
spending to a minimum, which caused arguments
with the producers who wanted him
to spend more. Still, you’d never know
Burton is so economical from watching his films. “For twenty dollars I
can tell you a lot of things. For thirty dollars
I can tell you more. And for fifty dollars I
can tell you everything.” His early years making
short films and getting started in the industry
taught him how to realize his vision on
a shoestring budget. So this director
knows how to spend money well --
whatever money he has shows up
in the frame. In recent years,
Burton has made more big-budget films,
especially for the studio that once fired him, Disney. Still, he consistently grosses
at least two to three times what he spends,
if not more. It might seem
surprising that this director portraying
alienated outcasts has such reliable
box office appeal. But he proves that
staying true to yourself pays off,
and also that more people can relate
to feeling like a misfit than you might expect. The past is haunting. Burton uses flashbacks
to illuminate characters who fixate on the past. “These flashbacks
happen often?” “Increasingly...today.” In Charlie and the Chocolate
Factory, we get a window into Willy Wonka’s
childhood-- “I'm sorry, I was
having a flashback.” something the original
Roald Dahl book and 1971’s Willy Wonka and
the Chocolate Factory declined to give us. Burton’s flashbacks
humanize and flesh out this larger-than-life
chocolatier, to investigate why he has a sore
spot for parents and an obsession
with candy. "And the rest of
you must be their..." "Parents?" Often his flashbacks
signify the turning points in the lives of villains
or even heroes. In Corpse Bride,
the flashback “Remains of the Day”
song describing how the bride was
murdered by her greedy fiance “I'll tell 'ya a story,
make your skeleton cry, of our own
judiciously lovely corpse bride.” both dramatizes her
turning point into becoming the corpse
bride and helps us see her as a wounded
human being. Big Fish is told
exclusively through the father’s flashbacks, “A man tells his stories
so many times that he becomes the stories. They live on after him,
and in that way he becomes immortal.” just like the story
Edward Scissorhands is told by an older
Kim to her granddaughter decades later. “Well, there are all
kinds of scissors, and once there
was even a man who had scissors
for hands.” Kim lives in the past, “I'm an old
woman now. I would rather him
remember me the way I was,” and we might say this
of other Burton characters. Burton sometimes
moves between worlds of grey versus
color to counter our assumptions about
which realities matter most. In Big Fish, the flashbacks
are more colorful than present reality,
visualizing how the past can loom
larger than what’s going on before our eyes. Likewise, in
Corpse Bride, the Land of the Living
is grey and dismal, while the Land
of the Dead is vibrant and lively “We all end up the
remains of the day.” showing rather than
telling the audience that the Land of the Living
is not a very nice place. “Why go up
there when people are dying to
get down here?” There’s a character-defining
symbolic object. Many of Burton’s most
beloved characters have a symbolic item
they carry with them. This talisman might
define the character. In Sleepy Hollow,
the caged bird toy Ichabod’s mother gave
him is a reminder of the love that he lost. “A Cardinal on one side,
and an empty cage. And now…” For PeeWee, the
item is his bike. “I wouldn't sell my bike
for all the money in the world. Not for a hundred
billion, million, trillion dollars!” For Lydia, it’s her camera,
representing the peculiar and original way
she sees the world. "God! You guys
really are dead. This is amazing." And since she can
capture signs of ghosts in her pictures,
the object reminds us of her unique ability to
communicate with the dead. "They don't want
to come down." "Why not?" "I think they were
trying to scare you away, and you didn't get scared." Sweeney Todd’s razor
is his means of revenge for the death of his wife,
and by this point, the character is only
the will for vengeance. “At last my arm
is complete again.” For the Mad Hatter, his
hats are what saved his life. “I'd like to keep it on.” “Suit yourself.” Edward’s object would
obviously be his hands, “I'm not finished” but eventually he learns
that he’s more than his hands. “No matter what,
Edward will always be special.” You recognize the cast. Of the twenty-six
feature films that Burton has directed
or produced, Johnny Depp has
starred in eight, “Good morning, starshine,
the earth says hello” and Helena-Bonham Carter,
Burton’s ex-partner and mother of his two children,
has starred in seven. “I love a morning
execution, don’t you?” Singer-songwriter
Danny Elfman composed the music for all
but three of Burton’s films. “There's children
throwing snowballs instead of throwing heads.” Other recurring faces are
Eva Green, Christopher Lee, Michael Keaton,
Danny Devito, Michelle Pfeiffer,
and Winona Ryder. It’s an adaptation
with a twist. Burton’s films might
feel familiar because they’re often adapted
from existing stories. Yet Burton has a gift for
making any tale his own. This might be through
his signature aesthetic, or through expanding or
altering the story’s ideas. “You can’t run a chocolate
factory with a family hanging over you like
an old dead goose.” It plays on fairy-tale
character types... like the evil stepmother,
who can be found in Sleepy Hollow, Alice in
Wonderland, and Beetlejuice. “We were trying to
scare your mother.” “Stepmother. Anyway,
you can't scare her. She's sleeping with
Prince Valium tonight.” There’s also the witch-like
character-- but in Burton she can be either
evil or good. “You cannot live your
life to please others. The choice must be yours.” The protagonist might get
help from a guardian angel. In Batman, Alfred is
the superhero’s conscience, the voice inside his
head telling him to be a better human. “I have no wish to
fill my few remaining years grieving for
the loss of old friends. Or their sons.” Grandpa George guides
Charlie Bucket toward his rightful place at
the chocolate factory. “But this ticket, there's
only five of them in the whole world,
and that's all there's ever
going to be. Only a dummy would
give this up for something as common as money.” Every hero must have
a monster to fight, and Tim Burton is
the master of monsters. The director says he’s
always felt connected to monsters, in part
because of the monster movies he grew
up watching. Burton revels in his
creations’ creatively gross monstrosities. In Nightmare Before Christmas,
which Burton produced, Oogie Boogie, a burlap
sack full of insects and spiders, wants Halloween
to be a terrifying holiday instead of a day full
of fun trick-or-treating, candy, and
costumes. “What are you going to do?” “I'm gonna do the best I can!” The monster might
represent a coarser version of oneself that
a character doesn’t want to become. The Maitlands may be
ghosts, but that doesn’t mean they have
to become Beetlejuice. Other times the hero feels
like the monster himself. Edward is seen
as the dragon, “The power of Satan
is in him, I can feel it” but really he’s
the kind-hearted royal unfairly imprisoned
in the tower. There’s a found family. Burton expresses that
while you can be satisfied on your own,
finding your people, whoever they may be,
brings the richest happiness. “Life is strange
and beautiful.” It has emotional range. What makes a film
truly Burtonesque is the melding of emotion. “I’ve never met anyone
that feels one way at every-- You know
what I mean? It’s like we’re
comprised of many different
feelings all at once.” People might think
of Burton as “dark,” but really his characters
experience a wide range of emotions. Fantasy or fairy tale
elements are grounded by feelings that
are true to our world. "This is impossible." "Only if you believe it is.” Most poignantly, Burton
captures a universal longing for what’s
impossible or unattainable-- “Hold me.” “I can’t” what is too delicate
and beautiful to be realized, except
in a dream world. “Well, I mean let's
face it, you're not exactly... normal, are you?” “It's not exactly
a normal world, is it?” Hey guys, this is Grace. 