One of the biggest secrets of physics is that
we still don't fundamentally understand what happens when the smallest things interact
with big things - that is, when quantum mechanics meets our everyday world. You've probably heard of the "Schrodinger's
Cat" experiment where a particle (in this case a cat) is in a superposition of two states
(both dead and alive) at once, until it interacts with the outside world - normally a photon
of light that we send in to see what's going on (but it could also just be a random particle
that has nothing to do with us). Upon interaction with the outside world, the
cat is observed as being either dead, or alive, but not both. The problem is, physics can't explain how
the cat, or particle, goes from being in a combination of two states at once to being
in "just one", or "just the other"; nor do we know how the "decision" is made. This isn't just a problem with cats, either
- it plagues every single quantum mechanics experiment, famous or otherwise, from the
double slit experiment and quantum teleportation to the Stern-Gerlach experiment and tests
of the Bell inequalities. In every case, we can predict how likely it
is for a particle to be in one state or another, but have no clue how it actually ends up that
way. That's where the many-worlds picture of quantum
mechanics comes in - basically, "many-worlds" proposes the idea that the quantum system
doesn't actually decide - rather, at every junction where large everyday stuff interacts
with a quantum system, the timeline of history splits and both possibilities happen on different,
alternate branches. You know, a choose-your-own-adventure where
every possible story happens. In this scenario, we'd think that only one
possibility happened because we'd be stuck on one of the branches, in a version of ourselves
that only sees one possibility happen. In some ways, this sounds pretty fishy - I
mean, it's hard to test the reality of a universe that hides its true nature from us by not
allowing us to test or observe its true nature. But anyway, in the many-worlds picture of
quantum mechanics, "branch-points" are predicted to happen all the time, everywhere. Pretty much any time subatomic particles interact
with each other, or with anything else, anywhere in the universe, there are multiple possible
outcomes. Which means a LOT of branching of history. There may even be infinitely many branches. So is the Many Worlds hypothesis true? We don't know - it hasn't yet been tested
experimentally. There's a bit of mathematics that supports
it, and there are also a number of mathematical models that don't require such an extravagantly
big & complex picture of the universe. But luckily, physics is science, not speculation,
and eventually, someone, maybe even you, will perform an experiment that helps us  