This Technicality Q and A episode is brought
to you by Dashlane. “I can’t tell if ur 12 or 20?” Me neither, honestly. ♪ I'm gonna take my horse to the Old Town
Road, I'm gonna ride til I can't no more. I got the horses in the back. Horse tack is attached ♪ Ladies and gentlemen, I have what is quite
possibly the most amazing news I’ve ever encountered. It’s definitely the greatest thing to humans
in our lifetime, nay our millennium. I now have a page on FamousBirthdays.com. *Alex laughs hysterically* I’ve peaked. I’ve officially peaked at age 17. And you know how I know that? Because it says I’m 17 on FamousBirthdays.com. *Even more laughing* I like the photo of me they used, but lemme
just say I went to Disneyland recently and got some quality pics. This one’s called the eternalpain.png. This one’s the “mom come pick me up.” This one’s the “wait, where am I? How did I get here?” And finally, this one’s the “yeehaw In F Minor" Aight we just hit 50k subscribers, which is
insane, thank you so much, uhh so, today, I wanted to answer
some questions. I asked people to submit some questions on
my Instagram Story, which, by the way, totally shameless plug, follow me on Instagram, @alexunickel. What are these hand gestures? Anyways, my friend Koosha submitted “What
drives you to produce unique content?” And that’s something I’ve been thinking
about a lot lately. Back in April, I went on a class trip to Alaska,
and it was pretty amazing. Alaska is beautiful, and I’m a big outdoorsman,
so I really loved it. Whilst hiking one day, my good friend
Billy came up to me and said (kinda outta the blue) “Hey Alex, what’s Technicality’s
purpose?” I was kinda confused for a second, and then
I told him the usual elevator pitch I tell everyone. “Technicality takes a closer look at our
awesome universe” But he’s like “No, no, no That’s your mission. What’s your purpose? Why do you do what you do?” I didn’t have a good answer for him at the
time, but fast forward a month. I was asked to give a TEDx Talk at the Woodside
Priory School, which was incredible. I talked about science communication and Technicality
and whatnot, and there, I actually had an answer for Billy. So many educational creators on YouTube have made me a better learner. They instilled a love of learning in me and
made me an endlessly curious person. >> TEDx Talk: That’s
my purpose for Technicality; to try to make other people love learning as much as these
people have made me. That’s what drives me to produce unique
content. Speaking of which, if you wanna watch the
TEDx Talk yourself, it’s live on the TEDx YouTube channel right now; you can click the
i or the link in the description to check it out. Joel asks, “What subject is the most elusive
that you haven’t figured out a way to cover it yet?” Joel, I’m so glad you asked this because
I have an answer and it’s been bugging me for a while. See, last semester in my US History class,
I wrote this paper. It’s called “The Lost Generation Revisited:
How Industrialization Impacted Interwar American Culture and Art”, and it’s massive. The paper itself is 9-pages, but the whole
thing, with the indices and works cited and whatnot, is 18. Here’s the gist of the paper: people who
lived in America in the interwar period, or the period between World War One and Two,
are commonly known as the Lost Generation. The archetypal member of the Lost Generation
was thought to be lonely, unhappy, and hopeless as a result of the brutality of World War
One. I think there are two things wrong with this
assessment. One, while Americans in the interwar period
did feel isolated and melancholic, they didn’t feel hopeless, and the root cause of these
emotions was not merely the brutality of World War One, but really industrialization. We don’t need to prove this point using
facts and logic, but, instead, we can look toward art made produced during the interwar
period, specifically, the paintings of Edward Hopper and the novel “The Great Gatsby”
by F. Scott Fitzgerald. I am so proud of this paper. This, and, like, my compost video are my favourite
pieces of academic work I’ve ever produced. But for the life of my I have no idea how
to turn this into a video. And to add salt to the wound, I think this
is a really important thing to talk about. Mundanity, loneliness, and monotony were major
themes in art produced in the interwar period, and those themes are once again relevant today. Philip, who runs the excellent YouTube channel
Volksgeist, asks, “Favourite musical artist?” and mine is Tyler, the Creator, in part because
one of his albums, Flower Boy, explores these very themes. While the 20th Century had F. Scott Fitzgerald
and Edward Hopper, the 21st Century has Tyler, the Creator and songs like Boredom and 911/Mr.
Lonely, both of which are on this LP. I feel like the next question
has got to be one of the most asked in the past couple months. Why did you cut your hair? I used to look like this and now I look like
this. The haircut got a lot of reactions. Mostly positive. Some negative. Thank you guys very cool. Well at least now I don’t look like Carl,
so people can stop commenting that all the time. And go back to commenting “wow
your voice dropped hoooooow wacky.” The story of why I cut my hair is really a
story of personal growth, and it starts in 6th grade. This is gonna get kinda personal for a hot
second, so brace yourself, please be kind, here we go. >> TEDx Talk: So when I was in 6th grade, uh,
thank you. I heard a mix of laughs and awws, so cool. In 6th grade, I spent all of my lunches in
the science classrooms watching science YouTubers. I know right, my social life was poppin. Yeah, that was a bit of an upbeat oversimplification. When I was in middle school, I had a tendency
to sorta isolate myself because I really prefered doing my own thing. Mix in plenty of social awkwardness, and I
wasn’t a super pleasant person to befriend. Admittedly, I’m probably more critical of
myself in hindsight, but it’s not that far from the truth. It was around the end of 8th grade when I
realized some of the errors in my ways, and just imagine you’re a little eighth grader,
and you’re suddenly overcome with regret for how you’ve acted for the past 3 years. That was... an experience. The whole process inspired a lot of reflection,
and, going into freshman year of high school, I was pretty happy with the improvements I
made. But, at the end of freshman year, I kinda
found myself in a similar situation. I was happy with how things were going for
a while, but then I kinda regretted how I acted. In a moment of deja vu, I underwent the exact
same process, a process I now like to call “the cycle of growth.” This cycle is how I learn from my experiences
to become a more mature person. Basically, it starts with me just living my
life, and then I realize that the way I’ve been living my life is seriously flawed and
I’ve wasted my time and oh God oh frick I regret everything *quicc pause* and then
I realize I can learn from my mistakes, so I congratulate myself on being so much of
a better person than before, and then I go back to living my life and the cycle continues
and continues. It’s like a bunch of mini life crises that
all work together to help me grow into the person I want to be. Like, like a bunch of quarter life crises. Well, actually, according to FamousBirthdays.com,
I’m 17, so it’s probably closer to like a 21/100th life crisis but you know that doesn’t
really roll off the tongue. As I continued to go through high school,
I continued to undergo cycles of growth. And then, last fall, my friend Elise (pictured
here holding a bird) cut my hair. Yes, my friend, who I later learned didn’t
have as much hair cutting experience as I thought she did. *calling Elise* So how much hair cutting experience did you have before you cut my hair? >> Elise: Before the Mountain School, I, like, cut my dog's hair once. So, why did I do it? This might not be that satisfying, but I just
kinda wanted to. Maybe, the haircut is kinda just a side-effect
of my growth. A symbol that things change. So, what do I think is the next step in terms
of how I’ll continue to develop as a person? Well, I’ve got one more year of high school,
and, in it, I hope to continue to complete as many cycles of growth as possible. And, then there’s college. Oh, a bunch of people have asked me about
college; it was probably the most asked question for this Q and A. I am very excited to go to college. I was recently chatting with John Green (which
I’m pretty sure is the coolest way I’ve ever started a sentence), and we were discussing
the trend of YouTubers dropping out of or not going to college to pursue YouTube. While I of course have nothing negative to
say about people who do drop out to be a YouTuber, I just don’t think that’s the path for
me. As you can probably tell from my channel,
I love learning. I value an education. And I value not just the academic, but also
social growth that comes from college. I mean, you’re in a completely new environment,
and, in my experience, that’s when you grow the most as a person. John Green also endorsed college, by the way. It was incredibly surreal to hear my childhood hero say, “Oh, you’ll get into a good college; don’t even worry
about that.” Knowing that, I guess the next question to
ask is, “how long is this channel gonna be around?”. And the answer to that is quite a while; trust
me, I ain’t going away anytime soon. I’m not looking to go viral tomorrow. I’m not looking to be famous. I’m proud of the community we have created,
and, sure, I’d love millions of subscribers (that’d be awesome), but that’s also not
the goal. The goal is not for me to churn out videos,
optimizing for quantity over quality just to appease some algorithm. The goal is for me to go to sleep at night
knowing that I’ve put absolutely everything I’ve got into a video and that I made the
best possible video I could. The goal is for me to strive to make content
that you find valuable and enriching and worth your time. The goal is for me, in 60 years, (when I’ll
be 77 according to FamousBirthdays.com), to look back on my life and think that I made
content that I’m proud that I’m proud to show my kids and my grandkids. I can picture it all quite vividly. My wife and I own an apple orchard. It’s close enough to a big city that we
could spend our time there, but far away enough so that we’re surrounded in nature, with
an endless amount of scents for my dog to smell. It doesn’t have to be a big orchard or anything,
maybe a couple rows. Just enough so I could pick apples to my heart’s
content. And every winter, all of my kids and their
spouses and all of their kids would gather there. And, then, I can recount various tales of
my life. I’ll tell my grandkids about the cycles
of growth I went through when I was their age, and I’ll listen to the cycles of growth
they’re going through themselves. I’ll show them my videos. I’ll give them a window into my life. And I will sit back. And I’ll be proud. And I’ll be happy. That’s the goal. So yeah, that’s my little goal. My little dream, and I want to take a moment
and say thank you, because you have supported me through all of this. It’s been a pretty surreal 5+ years, and
I can’t wait to make content for you for years and years to come. Uh, I also wanna thank Dashlane for helping
make all of my Technicality ambitions possible. My goal for the rest of 2019 is to make an
upload schedule. Those of you who listen to the podcast Cortex
with CGP Grey and Myke Hurley know they like to set a one-word theme for the year each
year, and, back in January, I set a word too: build. So, I think a very fitting goal for the “Year
of Build” is to build a robust upload schedule. Like I said, I’m gonna be a senior this
year, so college apps are gonna take up a lot of my time, and that’s on top of me
now working for Education.com which is really cool, and being the chair of my city’s Youth Commission, and
finalizing my book (what? Coming out this October? What? What?) Needless to say, my plate is very very full,
so we’re gonna try a 1-video-every-5-weeks schedule for the rest of 2019 and go from
there. Thanks to my patrons at Patreon.com/Technicality,
especially these awesome people on screen right now. Thank you for watching, DFTBA, see you on
September 30th, and explore on. >> Alex: Say "Subscribe to Technicality" to the channel >> Elise: To the channel? Subscribe to Technicality! >> Alex: There we go! I'm not paying her to say that too >> Elise: What? >> Alex: What? 