(what happened to WEEKLY who came to
film debut reality?) (fwsh) (there's a secret hidden
in the basement of PlayM) Rookie development team?
It's at the 7th floor 7th floor (Everyone thinks it's at the 7th floor...) (but there is a secret
rookie development team at the basement) (WEEKLY's debut is imminent
Get ready) (here comes the intensive care) (intensive training course
for WEEKLY whose debut is imminent) (WEEKLY thinks this is 
1theK's reality program) Two, three! Hello, we're WEEKLY Hello this is the rookie development team
from PlayM Your intensive training starts today (this is not what we talked about) (JIHAN desperately looks for the real 
rookie development team) (the real rookie development team
can't answer to their call) It was our first time seeing them,
and I had no choice to accept I knew before I was born,
like million years before (she's fast to adapt) Do you know what you need the most? (they don't have photos
since they haven't debut yet) We need to take your profile photo Go to the locker and bring
an item that best describes you First, JIHAN and ZOA Let's see Let me see,
I'll pick one for you What is it? This is what my Hyobi eats Chur? (chur : super delicious snack 
that cats just can't say no to) Chur... came out? No, we put it in Then what do I get? So cute (what item came out and 
why does JIHAN look taken back?) What is it? Cute Why did you bring a guitar? (you put it in there) I got a guitar (Jihan think) I brought it to melt your hearts
with a beautiful play One two three four (It's Animal Crossing all of sudden) This sound is not
coming from the mouth (this play calls for a standing ovation) That's our HAN JIHYO I brought Chur because There are kitties 
in front of the company In front of the company building - They got names too
- Navi Bobet Tau (that's how you're going to play?) (crazy for Animal Crossing.mov) There are cats whose name are
Navi, Bobet, Tau Fat cats I keep it in the locker to feed the cats I'm an angel (although we practically gave it to her)
You're doing good! Something to show us What should we pick? (opening JAE HEE's locker) (lol) I think this might describe who I am I wonder what they'll bring (WEEKLY members are surprised
by what they brought) What is it? What is it? What's your concept? My dream was to become a rapper (everyone is surprised by
JAE HEE) (I waited for this moment...) (their eyes are widening...) (mouth closed...) (how would you score JAE HEE's rap?)
9.5 out of 10? I personally give JAE HEE
0 out of 10 (and she's disqualified) (SHIN JI YOON_heart_prop) My mouth becomes a heart
when I buy clothes No (who just said no?) (quickly persuaded) So my face has one, two, three, four,
four hearts (they're WEEKLY,
not the audience) (satisfied) I can't tell difference between 
JI YOON and heart (where are you looking at?
That's just my shadow) (heart) (here comes the leader SOO JIN) Why the hat? I got a nickname boss puppy (the leader is too cute and
became a wolf) Show us the dignity of boss puppy One two three (this is the dignity of boss puppy) Boss, boss TK Play Navi Bobet Tau for us (TK is riding the rhythm) I can hear it (the youngest member is
shocked by the leader being strange) SOO JIN is not the type
to do something like that (she collapses out of shame) She never do anything like that for us
even if we beg (next is SO EUN and MONDAY) (covers her mouth) Why is this here? Why are you here? (what's this) What is it? How did you bring it here? Turn it off! Turn it off! (squeek) Why did you bring a water tap? Everyone has a water tap or two
in their lockers Another day of tear Why did you cry? I cried because of onion I'm an onion? (she likes it) I don't cry that much Actually she came to my room 
last night and cried a little You brought yourself I can do imitation of Pengsu Let me try Please show good reactions You already look like him Be quiet SO EUN,
I can't hear her voice Don't be too quiet ((they're being not too quiet)) Here I go Penghi, sir, manager (SO EUN and the audience
are working hard) I thought real Pengsu actually came here (I... cry again today...) I want a perfect reaction (profile photo clear) All idols should go through a camera test Repeat after whatever images that come on (Why is the camera up so high?) (do we have to... jump...?) Ready, start Should I do this? One two three I saw her face (the result?) (what a face.jpg) JIHAN's face looks the same JIHAN is just being JIHAN (next) Should I do the small one now? I’ll go up - Should we change?
- OkayX3 They're strategic I want to be the big one One two three I'm curious I'm so happy I have a bad feeling I'm so happy (they have mixed feelings...) (ZOA and JIHAN burst out in laughter
after seeing the result) (bad feeling and happiness) ZOA did well but JIHAN looks too bright She has to be like this
but she's going like this She's feeling it I want this as my wall paper (next is JIYOON, SOOJIN and JAE HEE) (what emoticon now?) - It's funny already
- My expertise I think JIYOON will do well (ready) (her posture is perfect) (members burst out in laughter
after seeing the result) (the dance of chaos) JAE HEE looks like a paper doll It looks like someone beat her Looks like she's being
punched away JIYOON looks like 
an elementary school kid going hey! It looks like JIYOON is going hey!
And I'm going yeah And SOOJIN is surprised (lol by what other members think) This feels like an audition program And then the family of contestants go
Oh my godX3 We did it (ends with a touching audition moment) You'll be doing photo shoots once you debut So make sure to look high-fashion
in any props we give you High-fashion? Like this? This is hard It's kind of hard Who wants to go first? (someone, go first) How about we hold it at the same time? Okay One two three (SOOJIN lost the timing) Then SOOJIN can go first (this looks too hard for SOOJIN) What's high-fashion? it's like this Should we count to 5? Start, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 (how would SOOJIN pose?) Turn around One two three (she's moved by their teamwork) Your score is 0 (this feels familiar...) (an old memory passes by...) (up next, JIHAN) I'm looking forward to it, JIHAN One two three four five It's over Over, over Stop right thereX2 What? (everyone can't stop laughing
because of the human carrot) (let's do another pose) (yo! This is high-fashion!) Let's turn around One two three (the first ALL PASS challenger) The carrot stuck poorly stuck 
between the legs was impressive It touched my heart (WEEKLY fell for the carrot charm) (here comes the ggang carrot) (they love it) I got the perfect score Good work Great job The intensive training It was touching because 
it was different from the past training When I first heard, they sounded legit So I thought I should try my best But there were a lot of weird stuff (which training
helped you the most?) Helped me? (in the next episode) One day tutor (Apink is here!) I think you need something stronger Are you tired? No Good 