Hello, everyone. And welcome back to
a brand new episode of The Financial Confessions. And I know I say
this every episode, and you probably don't
believe it at this point, but this actually is
a very special episode for reasons that will not
immediately be clear to you, because this guest will be
almost certainly unknown to you unless you're their
parent or spouse. But very special to me
because it's someone that I have the
pleasure of working and just interacting
with on a daily basis. But I will get to
the big reveal of who the guest is in just a moment. First, I wanted to give
a very quick shout out to our beloved
partners with whom we create every episode of
The Financial Confessions. So as you guys may know,
we make every episode of The Financial Confessions
in partnership with Intuit. And if you don't
know Intuit, you almost certainly know some
of the amazing products that they make. Basically, Intuit aims
to put a personal CFP in your back pocket by giving
you all the different tools you need to help manage
and optimize every part of your financial life. Things like QuickBooks will help
you manage all of your finances if you are a small business
owner or a freelancer. Mint will help you manage your
day-to-day budget no matter who you are. And TurboTax is perfect
for getting your taxes done and ensuring that you get
the best refund possible. No matter what your
financial needs are, unless you are living
off the grid somewhere, you are probably going to
need help at some point. And Intuit is the perfect
partner to get you all the help that you need. If you can't wait
to get started, check out Inuit at the link in
our description or show notes and get cracking. So as I promised, we
have a very special guest who is unbeknownst to you
guys, but very knownst to me. And that is my partner-- my business partner,
not life partner-- Annie Atherton. Hey guys. Hello. So you guys, if you're
familiar with TFD, you probably know that I have
another partner, Lauren Ver Hage, who used to be on
the YouTube channel-- for you guys watching
YouTube-- who also still works with us every day
as our designer, and who is my co-founder. But she is actually
in Ireland right now-- top of the morning to people-- so she is not here today. And I thought since you guys
already knew her a little bit, it would be cool to introduce
you to my other partner, who really manages so much of
the day-to-day goings-on of The Financial
Diet as a business. So Annie, to get us started,
would you kind of just contextualize for our
viewers what you actually do at TFD every day? Yeah, for sure. That was quite an introduction
that I have to live up to now. I have to say, as much as you
are tooting my horn right now, I feel like this
experience gives me a much higher appreciation
for you being on YouTube, and, in fact, anyone who is
on YouTube or on a podcast, because it's kind
of nerve-wracking when you don't do it. It's interesting. Annie has been
prepping intensely for this day, I would
like everyone to know, which is very much part
of her personality. But she takes this
very seriously, which we really love. I am the COO and a managing
partner of The Financial Diet. So I run the company
along with Chelsea. And that encompasses a whole
lot of different things. We're a very small
team, about seven people in office on a given day. So as you can imagine, all of
us do many jobs beyond what our technical title is. But my primary responsibility
for the past two years has been to bring in
advertising revenue. Or what you might be more
familiar as sponsorships. So that is the majority
of how The Financial Diet makes money,
not unlike probably most digital publishers. And it's a lot of work to
go out and find these folks, and manage the campaigns
once they're running, and make sure that they
do well, and that they don't-- aren't intrusive and
integrate well into the rest of what we do. Beyond that, I do a lot
of behind the scenes just logistical work. So like managing our
payroll, making sure we get paid, and pay other
people, and vice versa. And lastly, I get to help
out with some creative stuff because-- which is very unusual for
somebody in my position. But because we're
small, because Chelsea is very collaborative, and
cool, and wants everyone to give input, I also get
to work on the creative side of things as well. So that's Chief
Operating Officer, for people who may not
know what COO stands for. And so how did-- so I
know that we obviously know how we came together. But how did you come to
work at The Financial Diet? Can you give a little back is to
like our origin story and yours with TFD ? Yeah. So Chelsea and I used to worked
together at a pretty big media company in Brooklyn-- Which shall not be named, but
I'm sure you all can Google. Yeah. And we were both
very new to New York. I think we met within both
having moved here like a month before meeting each
other, and really had that like bright-eyed,
bushy-tailed approach to being in New York City. I was 25. I think you were 24. I'm a year younger, so yes. That math checks out. Yeah. And it was my-- not
only was it my first job in digital publishing, it was
my first full-time job salaried ever, first nine to five. Same. I had kind of a weird
career path where I was-- started out, I did a traditional
four year university, but then when I
graduated with a degree in English and international
studies, I was like, oh, was I supposed to like have
been thinking about what I was going to do after this? Like, missed that memo. So I did-- I basically had no
plan whatsoever. And I didn't even really
want one for a few years. I just did a lot of random
stuff like barista, server, worked as like a combination
host/security guard at a dinner theater. Was that the burlesque theater? Yes. Did a lot of backpacking-- You got to give people
the zesty details. Yeah. Yeah. Come on, that's so good. And I honestly loved it. It was like having been
a person that was like-- I was very into
school, and like had gone 17 years without having
anything that wasn't like, this is your prescribed path. It felt really good to just
be like doing nothing-- or not doing nothing,
but not having any distinct plan for a while. You WOOFed, right? Yeah. Yeah. I did this thing called-- I actually can't remember what
exactly it stands for, WOOFing, but it's like Workers On Organic
Farms, I think, in Australia. All that is to say
if you find yourself graduating from college,
or at any point, and are like, what the heck am I doing? That is exactly what happened
to me, and it's fine. You'll figure it out. I don't regret those like
wandering years whatsoever. But anyway, long
story short, I finally reached a point where
I was just like, oh this-- is I need to do
something, have some momentum. So I came to New York and
did this summer publishing institute for six weeks. And then right out
of that, I started working at this company. And it was like pretty random,
how I ended working there. I looked up the
CEO's email online-- The company being
the one we worked at. Yes. It happened to be
listed, asked if they were hiring for
anything, and they were hiring for a salesperson. Bear in mind that
is by no means what I had intended on going into. I thought I was going to
be in book publishing. You probably dodged a bullet. Yeah. Thriving industry-- Industry-wise. I don't know if you heard. But yeah, for whatever reason,
I like had coffee with this guy. And I was just like,
this just seems fun. This seems more different. And the sales, I knew
from the beginning, would not be really cut and dry. It was creative
from the beginning because we were like integrating
it into the editorial that we were doing. And that's why I worked
really close with Chelsea, because she led that process. Right. Yeah. I was working on
the editorial side, like basically, a brand
would come to the company, and I would work
with the sales team to help decide what that
campaign would look like. So we were doing that together
at this media company, and we worked with a
huge range of clients, like a bunch of movies
that you would recognize, like random alcohol brands,
like really across the board-- Really random alcohol brands. --and some really
kooky experiences. Fun fact, we actually worked
with one alcohol brand that, of course, will not be named. But we worked with that
brand for several months and none of us ever, to date,
have ever seen this alcohol in a store or a bar. That was some kind
of CIA operation to test the limits
of media ad buys. I wouldn't say-- Or a hallucination. Don't forget collective
hallucination is possible. Yeah. I actually think that's an
interesting question for us to talk about and for people
to hear, like what are-- what do we say no to? Like what makes us
say no to things? Like where are the limits? Because I think it's very much
a case-by-case kind of thing. And we've talked
recently about like we feel like we should
really nail down exactly what those limits are. But it can be very
gray in each situation. So I'm curious as to what
you think about that. Yeah, definitely. I mean, one thing
that's pretty obvious is that we don't
promote anything that we think is like really
egregiously luxurious. We're not going to
show $500 sunglasses. Like we're just not going to
do that because we wouldn't recommend that to
our audience as part of a sound financial plan. And of course, you
know our whole ethos is that anything can
be part of a plan if it fits for, you but our
assumption based on the age and life circumstances
in most of our audience is that they're not
in that position. If you can afford
it, no judgment. I mean-- Yeah. That's true. I feel like it's interesting
because I often watch like-- YouTube is a really
good example, because the average person
who's watching YouTube has watched YouTube creators
like promote products. And a lot of times,
you can really tell that like it's not
even comfortable for them. But you do really
realize-- like we've said no even pretty
recently to a brand that kind of from the get-go was a
little bit different than what we usually do. But like some of
their messaging-- and we won't get into the
messaging, because that would be too revealing of
who the brand was-- but as we got into the
process, we were like, ooh, this probably doesn't
really sound like us. It doesn't sound like something
that we would endorse. And so not only do
you have to have the uncomfortable conversation
with the client of saying like, I'm sorry, but we just
can't run this as it is. You have to, in the case that
you've received the money, return the money. So it can be a very-- like even for someone
at our position, who has the financial
ability to say no, and who has a team of
people, it can feel very hard and uncomfortable. So I can totally see
how like if you're just an average creator working
by yourself, oftentimes-- and this is your salary,
basically, like that could be really difficult.
So I have empathy, and I feel like a lot
of times audiences can be really hard on creators
who maybe don't always like hit it out of the
park with their ads, because that's how they make
their living in most cases. Totally. I mean, one thing that
I think a lot of people don't appreciate that
often is that content didn't used to be free. Now everything is free, and
people just expect that. And in some ways,
that's a beautiful thing and has democratized
the internet. At the same time, I
think people literally forget that creators have
to pay themselves somehow. Yeah. And I think they can even, in
some cases, maybe begrudge it. Totally. But it's like where
do you think they're going to get that money from? Yeah. Do you feel like
these people-- yeah. And it-- I mean,
for me at least, it's always felt like kind of
like really kind of a Scylla and Charybdis situation, in
the sense of like I've never necessarily felt
comfortable with something like a Patreon
for us, because we are able to sustain
ourselves through ad revenue, and we do discourage people from
spending on a lot of things. So I don't want to then
turn around and say, but spend on us. But I'm not sure that's totally
right because I could also make the argument that
we're providing something that is really great for--
and we want to pay everyone. And we do pay everyone a
very competitive salary. But then on the
other hand I also-- I know that even the most well
done partnerships will open you up to that same criticism. So you can often feel like
there is no way to win. And I think that in
some consumers' minds, like especially consumers
who will use something like adblock, even on
sites that they love, that they know are run,
it's like you're basically-- what you're saying to
that creator is like, I want what you're
making, but I don't think you deserve to make
a living from it, you know? So it's just like you
have to figure out what does the-- what does
the sustainable model look like, you know? Yeah. I mean, imagine if like
all car services were free, and you just had to like
watch a commercial in them. Like that would be an
insane business model. Oh hell yeah. Yeah. I'd love that. That's media, you guys. I would take that. Something else that I feel like
doesn't get discussed enough-- and this is I think
partially tied up to like how much this
is most YouTubers, it's their whole career,
and they're often alone in this, is that like it
is-- it can be really taxing on mental health. And that is something that
we have encountered so much in this industry,
as seeing people who make content
online who really have a hard time maintaining any
barrier with their audience, with other creators. Like that it becomes
their entire life. So I feel like part of what
we've always tried to do at TFD is keep a strong sense of
like, yes, we're doing this-- we're very passionate
about teaching young women and men about money. We love what we do. We love making good stuff. But we're also human
beings with private lives. Like, we're not going
to come out and just reveal everything
about ourselves or give unlimited
access to ourselves. And I feel like that's the other
thing that a lot of creators have not found the
right model for, is giving enough of themselves
to make the work that people love without giving so much
of themselves that there is nothing left. And I feel like
that's another place in which you can be a more-- a more discerning
fan and a better fan, is like I have
creators that I love, and I'm in a weird position of
sometimes like meeting creators that I love. And it's a fine
line, but I think it goes a long way to just
treat them with respect, and like have a
respectful distance, and make sure that they don't
feel like they're a performing monkey when you're around. What do you think it is about
the way we talk about money that has made it easier
for a lot of people to talk about money? Because we've had
a lot of people even on this show
who've revealed financial details about
themselves that they never had. Yeah. I think that's a
really good question. I think as we've always
said from the beginning, there are a million
places online where you can find
investment advice, and like, what's the
best credit card for me? Like we've never set out to
be your cutting-edge financial advice or promising anyone
that we're going to make you a millionaire. Like, we're for sure not. But I think what there
has been a huge need for, which is a need
that we're filling, is a place to talk about
the emotional side of money because money is very emotional. It's like simultaneously
this thing that affects everything,
affects everyone, is necessary in
order to do anything in this world, and yet,
is something that we're taught to not even talk about-- and let alone
learn about or feel we can use to our advantage. Did you talk a lot
about it growing up? No. Not really. I mean, I wouldn't say-- probably no more than
the average person, which is barely, you know? Before joining TFD, were you-- was that like an
interest of yours, money? So I have never been a very like
nuts and bolts money person. In fact, like growing up,
I was like in notoriously a little flaky about it. But I would say what I
have thought about a lot since a very young age is
how class effects people in their lives,
and how we perceive other people, and ourselves. Interesting. What do you think made you
think so much about that? So I think a couple of things. I grew up in a neighborhood that
had very mixed incomes, very, very wealthy people, and
also like housing projects. And then I went to
school in a district that is incredibly wealthy. It was a public
school, but it just happened to be very,
very prosperous. And I think just seeing
those differences, and being aware of
those differences, and thinking about them always
sparked that interest in me. And I was a little bit of
an outsider at the school because I didn't
live in the district. I was especially
allowed to commute because my mother
was a teacher there. So I think anytime you have
that outside perspective, that like allows you to
analyze the situation in an interesting way. I really relate to that. I had a very-- as you guys probably know
if you listen or watch-- I have a pretty-- I had a pretty
similar experience during my high school
years, in particular. Like I was a not-- we weren't poor at that
time, but we were definitely a middle class. But I went to school with like-- I would say half the students
in my class got like a new BMW for their 16th birthday,
like it was very much like-- and being around that,
like looking back, I think I would have been
infinitely better off being in that situation as an
adult than as a teenager, because I feel
like as a teenager, it is just uniquely
crushing to like not-- to have that, to feel that
distance, because teenagers-- like adults will at least
not say shit to your face, but a teenager will be
like, are those fake UGGs? And you're like-- Oh yeah. We had UGG day on my
cheerleading squad. Where you had to wear UGGs? Yeah. We had-- do you
know what ours were? At my high school-- And Juicy suit day. Juicy-- OK, we had like-- we had Lacoste polo
shirt day, like where-- it was a very popular thing. So I'm from a very WASPy
town, where it was very popular at the time to wear-- God, looking back,
what the hell was this? Like people would wear
multiple polo shirts on top of each other. Oh, I did that. And pop all of the collars. I did that. And they do the rainbow pop,
which is they wore like seven-- I didn't do that. The Roygbiv. I'm like sweating profusely. I like probably look
like the Michelin Man. But like they would wear them
all in the rainbow colors, and pop all the
collars, and it would be seven layers deep of Lacoste
polo shirts, which, by the way, cost $72, or did in 2005. So I just remember like looking
at that and feeling like-- I would like obsess over
the fact that like my family bought like store brand
cereal, and be like-- or like I would ask for a
polo shirt at Christmas, and I would get an
Old Navy polo shirt, and I would feel disgusting,
like I would want to rip my skin off my chest. And like looking
back, it's so funny because there was a time in
like the transition period where like I definitely still
cared about those things, and now it's like,
looking back, I feel actively glad that I didn't
receive a free BMW because-- not to generalize. I mean, I'm sure some of
those kids are doing fine. But a lot of them really aren't. Like a lot of them had a really
troubled life after that. And like-- or at the very
least are not in the position that I think that they
would aspire to be. And I think it's
probably in large part because having that much
at that young of an age, I think it really kind of
damages your brain in a way, because you really lose a
lot of sense of perspective, and what is your expectation
going into life, and like so many things that the average
person work for would now be a disappointment, you know? My husband and I are
now in a position where we can collectively
outearn both of our parents. Like we earn more than
either of our parents did together, which, when
you live in New York City, doesn't really feel the way that
it would feel in another city. Both of our parents, they
didn't live in big cities, so their cost of
living was lower. But they just both had like more
normal middle class salaries. And it's not that
we're millionaires, but we have reached that stage. And like it is really
interesting the degree to which both of our parents will
often like really actively kind of shame us,
and be like, you guys throw money around
like it's nothing. Like you guys really like-- when we will pay
for certain things, or not worry about
certain things, or like-- and it does give you that
twinge of like, ooh, maybe that's right. Like maybe I am not taking
my money seriously enough. And I think it's a real
blessing to have that, because if you don't have
that, like that really does in many ways help
curb our lifestyle inflation in a very active way. And I feel like if
we didn't have that, it would be even
easier than it is to get on the hamster wheel of
New York City, where you can just-- your mind immediately
adjust to so many costs that you would never
otherwise normalize. Totally. One of my friends who used
to work at a big fancy law firm said-- used the phrase "the
golden handcuffs" to describe a lot of
partners at the firm who get in this vicious cycle, where
you work like 80 hours a week, but then you have a
mortgage, and a car, and you just trap
yourself, literally, in this lifestyle where you can
never get off of it because you have to afford it. I just think it's very
healthy, in general-- like, I definitely agree that
the class focus-- even more so than money, class is such
an important prism to view all of this through because it
totally defines what you deem as normal, or acceptable, or
a need, all of these things are what you or I might
describe it as a need, someone else could
totally live without. So that's not a need. Totally. When it comes to money
and class, so much of what matters to us
is purely just dependent on who is around us. And that totally defines-- and
I think that comes back to what the value of The
Financial Diet is, and why I feel like it's a-- we're providing a
value for people, is that it is a
community in its way. We have ourselves
sharing our stories, we have all of our
contributors on our website, we have all the commenters
on our YouTube videos and in our Facebook group-- which you guys should all join. But the idea-- It's called Talk About Money. Yeah. But the idea with us
sharing all these stories is to give people
more perspective. So they're not
only having to look at the 10 people around them
that they work with, or go to the bar with, or
went to high school, and then only compare
themselves to these folks, who might not even be sharing
the full story with them. Absolutely. And I think that's
one of the biggest issues, is that there
is no comfortable place to even hear other
people's stories, let alone share your own. So if you read a story on
our website, or hear Chelsea talk about how she used
to destroy her credit, and we share-- With a pickaxe. Yeah. Hopefully-- we
hope that you have a sense that you're not
alone in this struggle, and that you are probably
doing a lot better than you think you are. And I also feel
like that for me-- this is why we always joke-- I mean, god damn, we
need to get that bell. Like anytime someone shares
a number, good or bad, that's why we feel so excited
about, because I really believe firmly that
the only antidote to a lot of these
anxieties, insecurities, and even maybe a lack of
solidarity is transparency. Like there is something
terrifying and liberating about being totally
financially naked, so to speak, to use Erin, Broke
Millennial's, word, because there is
something about it that I think so many people were
raised not to talk about money. But I think also, so many people
have so intricately coupled with their worth
as a human being, or some kind of like ultimate
indicator of their value, that it feels terrifying. But once you do it, and you
realize, as Ryan said when-- in a previous episode,
that the sky didn't fall. You're still alive. Like everything's still fine. All of the sudden, that
thing has so much less power over you. And it-- not only that,
but it can become a tool. Like I obviously share
what I make, but like-- I mean, I don't share
what our employees make, because it's not my place. That's their option
to share if they want, but like, I hope
they're sharing it. Like I hope everyone's really
transparent with each other because I would never want
there to be a situation where people-- and I think that
if you have that opportunity at your work, like please,
share your salary-- make sure you're
in a safe space, but that is such
a valuable tool. Like so many people at jobs,
not until they leave, and maybe even years after,
find out they were being paid $30,000 less
than someone else making-- doing the exact same job. Especially women. Especially women,
especially women of color. So if you can get over
that initial fear, your power just
automatically increases. Yeah. And I think not talking
about something just makes it seem shameful. And probably one of the best
things our generation has done, I think, is break
a lot of the stigma around sexuality, race, mental
health, like all these topics that people used to
like whisper about. And money is kind of late to the
game in that respect, almost. Like we-- I was going to say
that it's like-- It's like the final frontier. It is. It is for a lot of people. It totally is. But it's also like
before we talked about sexual health, mental
health, about like finances, it was a lot of, is this normal? I assume it is or I assume I'm-- I'm a horrible person and
doing everything wrong. And that is not-- that's not a way to live. It really freaks
some people out. Like people-- some people-- I always forget when I'm not
in a TFD zone, I'll like-- Marc and I love to
like eat at the bar, and we'll strike
up conversations with people near us when we're
like out traveling, especially. And occasionally, I've
gotten into conversations where I'll reveal a number. And they have this
look on their face of like, who are you, lady? Like Ew. And I'm like, oh, sorry,
this is like my normal. On that note, are there any
fun numbers you want to share? Any-- I don't know,
it could be anything. But we always love a number. A number-- did not
prepare this one. Oh. I don't know. It could be like a-- I don't know-- just
like even your rent. I don't know-- it's like fun-- it's always fun to share-- Sure. I can talk about-- I'll talk about my rent. So I just moved to New York
City, which is exciting, to be able to-- I'm in the TFD office every
day now, which is awesome. And this is just
a few months ago. I moved like two weeks
after getting married-- don't recommend. But I love our apartment. It's in-- it's just
south of Prospect Park, like basically along the
edge-- so central Brooklyn, if you're familiar
with that area at all, and it's a little
far from the office. But to me, it's worth it. We have a two bedroom,
which I've never had before. And it's-- It's a luxury. The lease price is $2,550. We negotiated one month
free the first year. So it normalizes to
like 23-something. Which is a very good price
for a two bedroom in New York. That's a good deal. And it's like all redone. It's brand new. We've had a little
hiccups with the heat-- if you're listening,
management-- which is a theme
for me in New York-- Could you imagine? To throw back to a further-- to a further situation, let me
just paint a picture for you, when I first moved
here and lived-- We know-- the Hey Arnold house? Yeah. And I was making like $35,000. Talk about knowing
the value of a dollar. This was like beyond, though. Like I think I had like a
weird almost like belligerent needed to be self-sufficient and
wouldn't ask anyone for help. And I was like, I will live
on $35,000 in New York City-- Which is very
little in New York. Yeah. And had no heat for
an entire winter. I had a huge space heater. The guy took pity on
me and gave me that. Also, can I please contextualize
that I always call it the Hey Arnold house
because she always had like a rotating cast of like
like older boarding member characters. She'd be like that like
60-year-old Czech woman who's always microwaving
fish or whatever. Yeah. We didn't really interact. I was the only person in this-- I love the idea of you like
a manic pixie dream girl, like the woman you a
fish through the window. You've got no heat. You're like, I can do it. We want to like I've picture you in like
a Victorian crumbling in Crown Heights
with like boards over every window and ghosts. Oh. Yeah. It was like above one
of those pizza places with the thick
bulletproof glass to pay. Oh no. But it was fine. I was never hassled or anything. I never had-- I
never felt unsafe, strangely-- maybe I should have. But, yeah, anyway, long
story short, the heat is a recurring issue
for me in New York City. But aside from that, everything
is great about the place. But I will say that that's
a huge increase in right from what I was paying
in Seattle, which was I can't remember right now-- 14-something a month. Wow. And that was for a one-bedroom. In Capitol Hill. Yeah. So it was much
smaller, but it was in like the cool neighborhood. So it still was a good deal. And yeah, so it
still stings to be-- to be adding like $1,000
a month to our rent, but-- Oh yeah. For sure. So no matter how you
talk about money, it's always important
to remember to do it with the right tools at hand. So fun fact, I say all the
time that I used QuickBooks, that I look at QuickBooks
basically every day, and I do. But Annie actually uses
QuickBooks even more than I use it. Tell us a little bit
about QuickBooks. I do, yeah. It's how we manage all
of our money, basically. And it's-- Shout out QuickBooks. You literally have
all our money. It really is pretty intuitive. I taught myself how
to do it, and I had-- I'm not that tech savvy. So I think that goes to
show that it's a really well-designed platform. It is. And so we use it
basically every day. We just manage like
everything from like payroll, to invoicing, to keeping
track of our spending. I mean, honestly, on a
certain level budgeting for a business is not that
dissimilar from budgeting for your home, if you were like
a really, really rich person. But so like it allows you to
like see where you're spending, and see where you might be
kind of going over budget, and things like that. And it just really
makes the whole process of managing finances
so much easier. Like before Annie joined-- this
is like big shout out to her-- Lauren and I were like
literally using like Excel spreadsheets and pieces of
paper to keep track of things. Like it was a hot, hot mess. And Annie actually took it upon
herself to be like, no more. I will not work under
these conditions. And got us set up
with QuickBooks. Well, thank you for that. But yeah, it is a good platform. And I would recommend
it, genuinely. Check it out at the link in our
description and our show notes. So as a last question
before we get into some of your
guys' questions that you submitted
for Annie and myself, why do you not pursue any
kind of social presence? Or even like outward-facing
presence with TFD? Yeah. So I mean, I'm on social media. Yeah I have-- I do use
Instagram at like-- in the old-school
sense of the word, like keeping in touch with
friends and family and-- yeah, but no. I'm definitely not
pursuing social media fame in any way, shape, or form. Why? So I think a few reasons. One is I think it's like I
don't feel any calling to it in the same way that I
don't feel a calling to go into medicine or engineering. And to me, it's like today,
it's almost like a career path. And if somebody-- A calling. No. I mean, some people are
just very extroverted and feel very comfortable
sharing about themselves, and they get a lot
of joy out of it. And also maybe more joy
even consuming social media. But if that is your call,
like you should do that. But I feel like a
lot of people today force themselves to
do it because they think they should for
their professional resume or whatever. And it's like, if you
have to make yourself, I don't really think you should. If it comes naturally
to you, that's cool. Like I know some-- I think we know somebody who
said that they scheduled tweets like on their personal account. Oh, do we. He was like, I schedule
all of my tweets like a week in advance,
for his personal account. And I went back and
read some of his tweets, and they were like meant
to sound spontaneous. They were like, cannot believe
like the blah, blah, blah. And I'm like, this
is honestly unhinged. I bet you're a murderer. Like this is so scary. Yeah. Yeah. But-- yeah-- so there's that. I also-- I think I don't do that
well when I'm too aware of what other people think of me. I prefer to just like
pretend that other people's opinions don't exist. Obviously, I'm sure I'm aware
of it on a subconscious level, but like thinking about it
too much just kind of makes me tweak out. It's always so funny. I always say this
to you, and I always feel like you're like mildly
like not put off, but always like, that's not true. But I always feel like
you're like the most just genuinely
well-adjusted person I know. Like very little seems
to ruffle you, or really bother you, or get to you. And it always seems
like you're very much just like doing your own thing
in almost like a vacuum, which I don't know many other people--
and sometimes it's social media, but also sometimes
just like a personality thing. So do you feel like being very
kind of private in that way and not really using
social media very much like helps in that? Probably for me. I don't want to speak
for other people. I think I am happiest when I'm
doing things that are like more in-depth versus breadth. So like reading a book
for like three hours, or having a conversation
with you for like two hours, about-- just going in-depth on
something versus like consuming a bunch of different content. I know, and love, and
respect many people who are the opposite. So I think that's maybe
just a personality type. But yeah, if I refute your
compliments of me being very well-adjusted,
which I appreciate-- It's like stressful, because I'm
like deeply not well-adjusted. No, it's only because-- And I'm always like, look at
Annie, so cool in her tunic. I was going to say it's
only because I don't think it's as true as you think. I definitely have
anxiety as much as anyone in our generation. As much as any millennial. No. No. I've been to therapy. I've been on medication. I'm very open about that. And I think that-- I think I do-- I think I am relatively
well-adjusted compared to a lot of people in media,
sadly, which is not-- Yeah, not a high bar to clear,
though, that being said. I feel well-adjusted for
media, for what it's worth. I often ask myself, it's funny-- not that this is about me,
this is a question for you. But I feel like I'm the
opposite, obviously. Like I do have a social
media presence and I do post. And I feel like I
often interrogate myself like why I do
it, because obviously, there-- sure, there's
like a serotonin boost to people liking a post. But I often-- I've found personally-- like
Twitter is just clearly like-- no one should be on Twitter. Twitter, I read for humor,
and like to share whatever. But it clearly does
no net good for me as a human being
to be on Twitter. But I do feel like the most
honest version of my approach to social media, that
feels like it could be the most positive
iteration of it, and feels somewhat
true to myself is like I find it really helpful
as like an accountability tool to myself. Like I'm often motivated
to finish things, to follow through with things,
to do things-- or do them to a better quality
than I otherwise would. And I'll push myself in a way
because it just kind of like-- if you feel like you
have people around you. And I feel like if you
can lean more into, hey, I've got a team cheering
me on, and less into like, I have an audience to please,
then it's maybe more healthy. That's a really good point. And I will say the one limit
that I've put on myself that has proven healthy, I
think, for my mental health, and also just like the balance
of what is versus isn't online is I won't-- I've done it a few times in the
past and I kind of regret it. But I will not do any kind of
like brand deals, sponsorships, whatever, on my
personal platform. Like that is just my life. Obviously, I will promote
things on TFD, with TFD, but I will never just
like-- anymore, ever-- I think I've done it twice,
and neither time was worth it. But I-- like because it's hard. Like when people come in your
inbox, and they're like, hey, you want this free really
expensive item in order to-- in exchange for tweeting
about it or whatever? Like it's hard to say no. But every time I did it, I felt
like it was a weird invasion of my own personal life. And also I felt like
I was now giving to the people who follow me, who
have a reasonable expectation of following just a human being,
like a pretty artificial view of my life, because in
some cases, like you wouldn't be able to afford
that thing, or do that thing. And so I feel like by
keeping up that barrier, it keeps you more
authentic, and-- like to your budget,
and your life, and what's real, but also like
keeps you from a place where-- like it really
freaks me out when I see influencers who like
do sponcon at their weddings, or like for their
baby's birth, and like-- but that doesn't
come out of nowhere. I think ultimately,
like something that I've said to a lot of
creators, even on this show, is that like I think the
best thing you could ever do on your digital life
is to separate what your brand is from who you are. Aside from like the potential
conflicts of interest, and like the potential
monetizing your wedding, it's also like you might not be
a young, hot YouTuber forever. And you maybe want to
have some longevity. So I don't know. But I think it is
very interesting. I personally,
selfishly, I would love for you to have a little
bit more of a connection with our audience, just because
you're such a huge part of what TFD is and does. And I feel like it's really
beneficial for our audience to understand more about
like who we are as a human. So I'm really glad
you're doing this. I know it's like a
little stressful for you. Scary, yeah. No, it just makes
me respect people who do YouTube more, honestly. I will say that I'm not
unaware that declining from like being on
Twitter, for instance-- especially like five years ago
did close some career paths. Like you can't really
like a writer these days. And that was
something I had to-- I mean, at one point I kind of
wanted to do that-- clearly, not enough. But I was like, I can't
do both of these things. So you do have to-- I mean, it does close
off opportunities to you. And by the way, I would like
to give a shout out to Lauren here, because speaking of like-- I also think that-- so Lauren
hosted the TFD YouTube channel with me for over a year. She never wanted to do that. Like that wasn't-- I
mean, she liked doing it, but it wasn't her wheelhouse. It wasn't what
she set out to do. But like that was absolutely
necessary at the time for us because we just didn't
have the manpower, like we didn't
have the resources. And so her putting
herself out there, her-- she's more of a public
internet figure than you are-- like her having that-- like she really put
herself out there because we didn't have
a choice, you know? And sometimes
like-- sometimes you do have to put
yourself out there. Like especially
if you were like, let's say, an artist,
who is looking for work. Like you don't
really have a choice but to build up a social
media following for yourself or like produce
content if it's needed. So you know hats off, because
I know that like it definitely came more naturally to
me than it did to her. And I'm-- obviously,
I'm still doing it. I don't mind doing it at all. But like that's-- hats off,
because it wasn't always easy, especially because,
as you've said, it was pretty nerve-wracking
for you to go on camera. And it was for her, too. Like she had a really
hard time with like-- and she made it look
really seamless, and plus the magic of
editing, but it was definitely an uphill learning curve. And it's like that
took some guts. So shout out to Lauren. Hope you're-- Yeah, definitely. And also wrote
hundreds of articles. Hope you're eating
some shepherd's pie. What? She also wrote
hundreds of articles. She also wrote
hundreds of articles and designed like tons
of stuff for the website. Like she did a lot of stuff that
was not her wheelhouse at all that she had to do. So you enjoy that rest
of your year in Dublin. But come back soon. All right. So we have some audience
questions for you, but I guess also
me, a little bit. So we'll answer them as a squad. The first question that
our audience threw at us, what are TFD's upcoming goals? Well, we have quite a few. I would say one of them,
get to over a million subscribers on this
here YouTube channel. Get that-- get that plaque. So for those who are
watching YouTube, so we get this littler
plaque at 100,000. But when you go to a million,
and you get this enormous gold plaque. We want that plaque. Yeah. Tell your friends. Tell your family. Tell your friends. Tell your family. What else is a goal? Yeah, so growth
on all platforms. We've had insane growth on
Instagram in the last year, just from people coming to
our channel and liking it. It's been really
fun to see that grow because I think people
genuinely get a lot of joy out of our Instagram posts. And that is close to
a million as well. So that's another
one, that maybe that should be our number
for the year, a million. It's the number-- it's
the year of a million. Yeah. And then a little
more qualitatively, I think we want to launch a new
YouTube series at some point that I'm going to
be working on a lot more closely, which is exciting. We want to, at one point,
host a one-day conference for freelancers and people who
want to run their own business, or have a side gig,
something like that. So really just expand
what we're doing. Totally. Anything that you
would add to that? Yeah. On the qualitative
side, like we have-- by the time this airs, the
first episode will be coming-- will have already come
out, and then we'll have another couple in the can. But Lindsey Ellis, who
is a YouTube I love, did a four-part guest series
taking over my Tuesday show on the YouTube channel where she
explores money and pop culture. That was thrilling
to be able to do. And I'm already talking to
several other YouTubers who I'm obsessed with to
do a different kind of special takeover where
they talk about things that are in their wheelhouse. And I think, I would
love-- like we finally have the financial
and production capabilities to reach
out to these people that we really respect,
and love their work, and have them come create
work about finances with us. So that's very exciting. We're also doing a good
amount of events this year, which we've been able
to also bring out people that we really love and respect. So-- Oh, we're doing a
website redesign. That's pretty big. We're going a website. It's going to be
launching, hopefully, tax day 2020 is our new website. And it is going to be fabulous. So yeah, there's
a lot this year. But I think one good thing,
and you can maybe correct me if I'm wrong, but
one good thing is we did a lot of hiring
over the last six months. And we're pretty
much good for 2020. Really, the last month. Especially the last month,
but like we're really good for 2020, which is great. I mean, we may end up
hiring another person, but like there's
no like pain points anymore, whereas there really
were up until this point. And like hiring is very
difficult and time-consuming, so that's awesome. What do you see as the biggest
issue for media companies of TFD's size? Yeah. Well, the biggest
challenge, I think, is that from an audience
perspective, i.e., all of you listening or
watching at home, we-- You lot. Yeah. We're the same as
like the BuzzFeeds and the VICEs of the world. But meanwhile, like our entire
operating budget is probably equivalent to like
their furniture budget. Like we are doing-- Like when Jonah
Peretti sneezes, that's our whole operating budget. But from your guys'
perspective, our stuff is free, their stuff is free also. It has to be just as
good, if not better. And that's a high bar. So there's that. And not only are we
competing for audience, we're competing for advertisers. And that is a whole other ball
game, because let me tell you, the ad sales world is crazy. I learned when I first
started in this industry, about these things called
sunglasses and jeans parties, which is where like salespeople
would take out media buyers, and just take them to a store
and say, buy whatever you want. Like a sunglass
store or something. I can tell you we've never
done, and never well. I don't know how
prevalent that still is, but just suffice to say
that there a lot of wining and dining, and just like--
to just get in front of-- Oh, and let's be honest. I'm sure in many
industries, it's not just sunglasses and jeans party. It's like other parties. Yeah, I would also specify
that a lot of access-- That's probably the
above bar, yeah. A lot of way access
journalism goes down where it's like, well, we'll
tell you a story early, but a lot of your other stories
should be a little nicer. And if you'd like a review
unit of this like refrigerator for your home, we could
do a 12-year long review. Right. Yeah. No, we're like very above board
with our client relationships. But that's honestly not
even the biggest thing. I think the biggest thing is
that advertisers can just go-- and by that, I mean
any brand, basically, that wants to put
their message out there-- can also just
advertise directly on Facebook, or Instagram, or
Amazon, is actually the-- one of the biggest
advertising platforms now. So Amazon is our competitor. Great. Like people advertise on Amazon. But this sounds like-- this
sounds like some whining, but it's actually
kind of a humble brag, because I think we're
doing pretty good, all things considered. Yeah. And you know what? I think, honestly,
in many cases, like one thing that I think
is our biggest advantage is that we're totally independent. We have no funding,
we have no board, we have no one who has to
like-- we have no bureaucracy. We're very able to
make our own decisions. It's funny, because a lot of
times in the news, when you'll read about like X or Y company
got you know $75 million in their Series B,
or whatever, they got this amazing amount of funding,
what that often doesn't tell you is that a mere year later,
that company may well not exist because most of those
big venture firms that are investing in
these companies, they invest in a portfolio
of companies knowing that only like, in a great
scenario, one out of 10 is going to do well
and become a fundmaker. So they put enormous
pressure on these companies to scale and grow,
and scale and grow, past what is sustainable to-- like to essentially have
a chance of earning out that initial investment. And in many ways,
like I've seen-- both in media and
in other industries, I've seen companies who are
at the back end of receiving that funding, and their lives
became miserable overnight. And like they can have a year
where they have $120 million in profits and it's
still considered a failure because they were
targeting $250 million. But that initial goal was
externally imposed upon them. So in many ways, it's
kind of nice to be like, well, if we make a
decision, it's ours to make, and our goals are our
own to set, you know? Yeah. So this is a very juicy one. Would the partners
ever sell TFD? Would they, Annie? So we are not actively
pursuing a sale at this time, but never say never. It would just totally depend
on the offer and the terms. And the terms I think it's
probably worth stating that there are very few situations
in which just a straight-up sale of TFD would be-- if it's going to be as lucrative
as you would want it to be, it's probably going to
be a terrible situation on the back end. And if it's a pretty good
situation on the back end, it's probably not going
to be a lot of money. So it's pretty complicated. Like there is a stat
that we were quoted like, when a company gets
acquired, CEOs on average only like spend 25% of the time
that they were contractually obligated to spend at
the new parent company. They leave early, almost always. And that usually means leaving
a lot of money on the table because they were on some
kind of vesting schedule with the purchase. And that says a lot, right? That probably says
that what made your work and your life unique
in your independent capacity is often incompatible
with an acquisition. I'm not saying there
aren't iterations where it could be good. I just think that
often an iteration where it could be good,
even, for example, in the instance of
partnering with another media company who's doing a
lot of similar work, and would love to just like
really amplify what we're doing and bring TFD to
a bigger audience, and bring us more resources,
and that kind of thing. And where we could maintain
a lot of editorial control and it would be the
stuff that we love to do. Oftentimes, that's
what a lot of money. It's not like an
outright just like you're getting bought by some firm. It's like much more of a
collaboration, essentially. And all kinds of
strings attached. So and we've had-- like in transparency, we've
spoken to various potentially interested parties. And-- But only when
they've come to us. Only when they come to
us, we don't seek it out. Yeah, we never sought it. And it really doesn't
take the shape that you would think it takes. So like Annie said,
never say never. But I would say what's
more important to me, like I would not ever
want to be in a situation where I felt like it was
ruining what TFD is to sell it. So it would definitely-- the
highest priority would be a partner who would do something
wonderful with it and make it what it should be, because-- I mean, I can't run it forever. So eventually, it would either
have to really change form or be sold. And like I would really hope
that in either of those cases, it could continue to be
something great, because you don't ever want to look
back at what you made and be like, remember when I
took a little money to watch them burn it to the
ground, you know? Yeah. It's been really
interesting to see a few independent publishers
decide to just completely close rather than sell
in the past few years, Rookie magazine-- Design*Sponge. Yeah. And both of those founders
wrote really pretty transparent and thoughtful reflections about
why that you can find online. Yeah. I highly recommend it. Yeah. I mean, there are so
many potential options of what the future could be. But one thing that is important
to remember always is-- I mean, nothing is forever,
but especially not the internet is forever. So always keeping in mind
what any kind of elegant exit could look like, in any fashion,
I think is really important, and being realistic. I just don't necessarily
know that it would take the form of a straight-up sale. So there's a lot to consider. So I guess the short answer
is that maybe someday in the future, but
it would have to be really the right situation. And it's not something
we're actively seeking out. What is the biggest
mistake TFD has made? You know, it's funny,
because I feel like we make like 10 mistakes a day. But then when I think
back on all of them, it's hard to think of one
being that consequential. I would say that we've come-- we've done not a great
job of planning at times, and found ourselves
being like, oh crap, we need to rush this thing,
or we need to like-- We've had many situations where
we're like, well, bad news, we have $4. Yeah, exactly. So we have to figure out
how to get to next week. But we've always
done it somehow. So I mean, the mistakes have
been not planning well enough. But luckily, thus far,
we've made out alive. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I would say, similarly-- this isn't really quite
the same as not planning, but my biggest
mistakes have always been not leaving situations
soon enough when it was clear that they weren't working out. I have a very hard
time, like I can-- I complain constantly. But I have a very
hard time ultimately like making a choice
about certain situations, certain paths that we've
taken, partners that we've had, that it was like it was
clear for a long time that it wasn't working out. But it took like probably
six months longer than it should have to
cut that off, and then get where you should have been. As a last question
from the audience, what is the best
idea the TFD has had? Maybe this series. I don't know. It's a good series. Aw, that's sweet. Really? It's hard-- every day we
have-- we're an ideas company. Annie Atherton,
this is your life. I'm like, no, no, no. But in all seriousness, like I-- I feel like I-- it it's
very unclear the trajectory to the person, like
the outside observer. So what's really
important to understand is that like-- and again,
credit where credit is due, like Lauren was there. Like literally, she lived on my
couch in Williamsburg four days a week in my one
bedroom apartment while my husband was away
at work four days a week. Drove from New Jersey to
sleep on my couch four nights a week in New York
and start TFD. Quit her job, like sight
unseen, had no money. And it was like-- it was really
scary looking back. And it was also thrilling,
and fun, and exciting. But it was it was
a huge, huge risk. And so that is
something that like deserves just the ultimate
respect and the ultimate props. But at the same time,
like when we reached-- when you came on
full-time, which was-- you were part-time
10 hours a week because you had a full-time
job all through like 2017. But then January 1, 2018,
like you came in full-time, and it was a
different situation. We were more established
and we had more to build on, but things were a mess. Like we really did not have
any kind of infrastructure, we had no real internal systems,
we didn't have like a budget. We didn't have anything
that a business really needs to function. And Annie really kind
of like forced us into that level of maturity. So I do think that-- I mean, Annie and Lauren,
definitely the best ideas by far, because you really
need the right people in order to take things where
they need to go. And everyone serves
a different purpose. And so-- yeah. Well, I really appreciate that. That's very kind. It's true. It was an established
audience, though. And I think that getting to
that point is for sure harder. Like the funny thing is
I think a lot of people actually could have done what I
did in terms of like setting up infrastructure. Like a lot of people
have that skill set. I actually didn't, so I
am very proud of myself for developing it
out of necessity. And I also give
credit to you guys because for whatever
like alchemic reason, I think you created a space
where you were like, here, you are empowered
to do whatever you want to make this stuff happen. And that was motivating
to me in a way that it's-- I'm not even motivated in my
own life to be like organized. So I think it goes both ways. Like whatever-- you guys
created an environment where I was able to do that. But I do think that that
is still an easier thing-- those things are easier
to do than building an audience from zero. I mean, that's probably true. But I do think that
ultimately, in any-- if you're someone who's thought
about starting a small business of
any kind, I think one thing that's really
important to remember is that like it is infinitely
harder to go it alone for a lot of reasons, mostly
because you're only one person with one skill set,
and one connection, and one network, and all that stuff. But also because it can
be very, very daunting at the-- especially in
the beginnings of things. And it's very helpful
to have someone. But it can be extremely
fraught in a partnership. And it can be a-- it can be a chance to-- you can ruin friendships,
family members can fall out over bad
business partnerships. Like when there is money on the
table, that's people's lives. That's people's futures. So the most important
thing, I think, to remember, and something that I
think TFD has always been good about between
the three partners is that like, definitely
we've disagreed on things, definitely we've
had growing pains, but there's always been a really
sort of team first mentality. And I've never, for one
second, had a feeling that anyone was really like
gunning for themselves, which I feel like is often one
of the most damaging things in any partnership. So I think just going into
any partnership knowing that you have to be--
you have to prioritize, especially financially, the
whole team over just yourself is the most important
thing, because without that foundation,
you can't even do the day-to-day work
because you're always going to be looking
over your shoulder. Like Annie could literally
steal all of our money tomorrow, you know what I'm saying? And I know she wouldn't do that. But if I ever had
a feeling of like, does she like
resent some dynamic? You would wonder, you know? And so that cannot be bought,
and that's something that you have to really be willing to
enter into in a partnership. And that's a good idea. So now the rapid fire. Number one, what is the
big financial secret of your industry? Media? I think that most
companies are funded and have these huge coffers of
venture capital behind them. Also most like
influencers and creators are like really
unhinged in real life. Like some of them are
mature, but some of them are like crazy. Yeah. You should see VidCon. It's a lot of Jake Pauls. OK, number two, what
do you invest in versus what are you cheap about? I invest in tech
products, relationships, mostly taking the
form of traveling and very expensive plane tickets
to see people, food and drink out with friends, but that's
kind of relationships as well. Cheap about everything
else, practically. What has been your best
investment, and why? I think, again, relationships. All of my relationships,
but I will say in particular,
my husband and I were long distance for two years. And that was really expensive. And this was while I was living
in the no-heat apartment. And yet I still flew
back and forth a lot. But in a way, that was also
an investment in the decision to be long distance was always
an investment in my own career path, because I could have not. I could have gone
back to where he was. So it was an investment in
both things at the same time. But it was very expensive. Honestly, on some level,
like Mona, my dog, like I just love-- I love her so much, and she's
so great for mental health, and she's so-- I don't know. It's just like-- I mean, an
investment, like we just like-- she's adopted, so like the
money that it cost to adopt her, and the vet, and all
that stuff, and the money we pay for her little-- her little toys, and her little
food, and her little life. I love my dog. It's true. What has been your biggest
money mistake, and why? I have made so many, but they're
all-- my mistakes are always really dumb. They're like I didn't realize
that I had this recurring charge or stuff like that. Do I need to go into my
biggest money mistake? Like literally destroying every
element of my financial life almost intentionally
by the age of 19 and then having to claw my way
out of it for over the next six years. That would be my biggest
money mistake, for sure. What has been the
financial habit that has helped you the most? I think just taking joy in
simple things on a daily basis helps a lot. I get so happy from like
making my coffee every morning. And-- It's true, Annie. You really do. Like your-- her Instagram feed,
she posts like once a month, and it's always like, look
at these turtles I saw. It is truly like-- you have the energy of like
a 70-year-old aunt who's like freshly retired
and living it up. I aspire to that. It's great. You brought this up, actually,
when we were discussing it. I cook quite a lot. And I cook big batch
and I freeze a lot. And so I feel like-- That's a really good habit. And I genuinely enjoy
cooking a dinner at home for my husband
and I, or having friends over to eat dinner,
way more than I enjoy going to a restaurant. And I love going to restaurants. So that is like awesome. That's a big money
saver in the long term, especially in New York. When did you first feel
"successful", quote-unquote, and what does that
word mean to you? I think I feel successful in
a work sense a lot of the time when we have our
events and we get to actually meet the TFD
audience in person, which is funny because we
interact with them in a digital way every minute. But to see people come
up to us and be like, this has changed my life. I've actually raise
my credit score, or gotten out of debt,
or all these things. I'm just like, oh, this is
really making an impact. Totally. It wasn't the first
time I felt successful, but my husband and
I, on New Year's Eve, we spent a few hours doing our
2020 plan that included like all different elements of
our goals, our finances , our professional lives,
our travel, all that stuff. And when we were doing
the financial breakdown, like it felt really
good to be like, wow, I'm contributing
like a lot of money to this relationship
for the first year. Not that I wasn't
this past year, but it's definitely like I'm at
an earning place that I never even thought I would be. And like my assets
have real value, and I'm contributing a lot
to our future, and that-- like seeing that
all written down, and seeing what our plans
are, and seeing how much I was bringing to it made me just
feel really proud of myself, because not only was I such
a fuck-up, but also like I-- for a long time,
it was never clear that TFD was going to
be a viable business. And now it definitely is. So that felt really good. Out of sheer curiosity,
did you think that you would make a lot of
money, like as growing up-- like in high school early? No. No. Like did you think that at
some-- even if you were like, OK, I'm messing around right
now, but someday, I'll make-- I'll make good money. No. Intuit might make us cut
this, but I honest to God used to think that I--
this sounds like horrible, and like it's fake,
but I honest to God I used to think I would just
have to be a con artist. Like I thought-- I didn't have the
self-confidence in my physical appearance
to marry a rich man when I was younger. But I definitely
felt like I would-- yeah, I felt like I would
never have a real career. Like I definitely-- I don't want to describe
it as con artistry, but like I have-- like
definitely in my earlier days, like I have lied
on resumes before. I've like inflated things. I've like definitely-- and I-- looking back, I can't say
like I think that it's unethical in a certain way. But I also do feel like, in many
ways, the professional world and the path toward
financial success is so rigged, and is
so unfair, and is so favored toward people
that I don't necessarily have like a level of-- I don't have that same
judgment about like someone who maybe like fudged on their
resume to get into a first job because their parents
couldn't afford to put them through whatever school-- Internships. --or internships, or
put them on the path. So it's, in some ways,
like a little bit humorous to say con artist,
but I definitely thought that if I were ever
going to make any real money, that it would have to involve
some kind of like schemery. And-- That is so funny. I-- It doesn't, for the record. I did not think
that I would ever make a lot of money, but not
for the same reason at all. I thought that I would
be like a librarian, or like I just always thought-- I feel like you would be
really happy being a librarian. I probably would. Yeah. Like I feel like you have
a pretty good salary. Now I'm not going
to spill your beans, but you have a pretty
good salary now. And I feel like
you just genuinely seem like someone who
would be happy either way. Yeah. What's insane, though, is like
how much money it takes to just like be a person, you know? Like to age-- In New York, man. --or to like retire today,
like compared to like-- True. Yeah. And that's-- when you start
thinking about retirement, man, that money doesn't seem the way
it seems when you just think about buying food. So think about retirement,
that's my message. So any lasting thoughts,
recommendations, words of wisdom,
advice, warnings, you would like to leave
our audience with? I guess we've talked a lot
in this episode about career paths, and expectations,
and I guess the biggest message that
I would give to anyone is that it's totally OK to
not know what you're doing and what you're
going to be doing. You'll figure it out. Don't be so hard on yourself. That's true. And where should they go
when they go to Seattle? Coffee shops, restaurants? So I used to live close to a
little cafe called Joe Bar that is tiny, but I love it. And there's-- I don't know--
there's a lot of good places. Go get your coffee. So thank you, Annie,
for being here. And it's Friday, actually,
so I won't see you for the next two days. But I'll see you bright
and early Monday morning. Yeah. Thank you. And thank you guys all for
listening and watching. Bye. Bye. [MUSIC PLAYING] 