I know it's very easy to miss, but as it turns out, we have an election coming up. It's crazy! And as with all elections that have come before, this is the most important one in our nation's history. So you're out there wondering, "Who should I vote for?" because your vote is totally up for grabs, right? I do my research on both candidates before I deciding who I'm gonna to vote for. [Whispers] That's something I say to sound open minded. So if you're stuck trying to figure out who to vote for, I've got some easy questions to ask yourself to decide who's the best candidate for you: [Echoing voice] 
Who has the best memes on Facebook? I don't know if you've noticed, but memes are basically currency now. If a candidate posts a meme that levels a sick burn on their opponent, they might as well drop out. [Laughs loudly] 
Wow, she really zinged him with that one about the minimum wage! You better believe I'm gonna share that pic! [Typing] I'll just leave this here... Seriously, if you can find a candidate who can insult their opponent in fifteen words or less using Impact font, you have a winner! Wow, I was not sure I knew who I was gonna vote for until I saw this particular meme that all my friends shared. They make a great point. Now I, I will share it and now l know who I will vote for. Oh, and speaking of friends, [Echoing voice again] 
Who are my friends voting for? You have a very diverse friend group. You pride yourself on how unique all of your friends are! So the fact that all your have all the same political views is—purely coincidental! Look, you don't want to stray to far from what your friends think because you don't wanna risk excommunication. Your friends are open-minded, but, not that open-minded. I don't get it! How is this guy getting any votes at all? None of my friends votes for this jerk! The world is full of sheep, apparently. 
[Bleating sound effect] Whose bumper sticker have I seen the most? It's perfectly fine if you let a bumper sticker decide your vote. Bumper stickers change minds, okay? You would be surprised how many people make last minute decisions at the polls. Oh my gosh! I have no idea who to vote for. I think I'm just gonna vote for the next bumper sticker I see. If even one vote is changed, the bumper sticker was worth it. [Echoing voice] 
Who are my parents voting for? You have pretty good parents; no need to think this through for yourself, just vote the same way they do. [Echoing voice] 
Who aren't my parents voting for? Your parents are the worst! You should probably vote for whoever they aren't voting for, just to spite them. That's mature! Haha, guess what, Dad? I'm off to vote, off to cancel out your vote. You press the "R" and I press the "D"! Aww! I'm gonna love every second of this! My civic duty! [Echoing voice] 
Who are all the popular YouTubers voting for? Popular YouTubers can be really shy about sharing their political views, but if you ask them nicely enough, I'm sure they'll be very happy to tell you who they think you should vote for. Hey guys, as you probably know, today is election day! America, right? So I am here to give my informed opinion about who you should vote for, which just so happens to be the same opinion as all the other big YouTubers! [chuckle] It's because we all participate in group think, and putting my opinion in the title got you to click on this video! Thanks for watching! Please subscribe! And finally, [Echoing voice] 
Who does it seem like the media wants me to vote for? I know that a lot of people think that the media outlets are completely free of bias, but as it turns out, they're not. See, they're just a lot smarter than we are! So really all you have to do is figure out who they, in their infinite wisdom, believe you should vote for and then go with that. Tonight we continue the perpetuation of the two-party system by giving no voice to alternative candidates. And later, how stupid are you? Our new IQ test will tell you just how much less intellectual you are than moi. So, hopefully this has helped you make an informed decision on who you should vote for this year. Just if I could just say one thing, really let your emotions guide you. Like, think about it, but don't think about it too hard. I don't want you to hurt yourself. Josh: Come on Lulu.
Bobby: Lulu! Lulu! Jordan: Come here, here, hey!
Josh: We're gonna hang out in here, okay? [Indistinct speech] Josh: Where do you want to hang out while we're shooting this video? Do you wanna go downstairs and hang out downstairs? 