- [Speaker] Are you guys a
little, uh, feeling awkward about walking into someone's house? Hey buddy, what do you see out there? - A rainbow. - Nobody ever comes to
their houses out here. This is like totally secluded. - It's a video? Oh, pfft. - This is our old gate, right here. Doorbell? (doorbell dings) Welcome to the Best Western,
what we're going to call: "Spaceship Pool". (Lincoln laughs) It's night time, and
they have a giant bubble that's over the pool, and
they have it dark in here. Thank you to Best Western Hotels & Resorts for sponsoring this
video, we are right now in one of our favorite cities in America. (music plays) So what I thought would
be fun for today's video is to take you guys to the
house that we first lived in when we lived in Alburquerque,
when Lincoln was just like this little, two-year
old, three-year old, just a little guy: he learned how to golf,
and had so much fun here, and hopefully, I just want
to go knock on the door, and see if these people will let us in, and hopefully see the house
that we used to live in. So yeah, this is going to
be a very special video, to me and to Lincoln, to
go visit some old friends, and to see our old house, and to show you guys
some crazy footage that we've never put anywhere on the internet. This is our friend Ty, you've seen him in our Lake Powell video, you've seen him when him
and Lincoln did a vlog all by themselves,
Lincoln's first ever vlog, (Ty laughs) he lives in New Mexico
and he's going to let us borrow his car and have us
take us around to our house so, let's do this, Ty. It's good to see you buddy. So this is it, this is the neighborhood that we used to live in, which
is this little town called Corrales and it's right
along the Rio Grande River and it's beautiful. The speed limit is like
twenty-five to thirty-five throughout this whole thing, and it's just this peaceful, beautiful, especially right now with,
like, the yellow trees, it's just gorgeous, and so
we're going to go see the house. Lincoln, do you even remember
how to get to the house? - I have no clue how to get to it. Once, like, we're turning
up the main street, I know, like, the winds in the road and stuff, but I don't know how
to actually get to it. - We rented this house
thinking we're going to be here for two years, and then
I'm going to get the heck out of Albuquerque, 'cause who
wants to live in Aluquerque? Well after six months
of living in the house, we fell in love with this
city and we just decided, this is where we want to live, and so we actually bought
the house from the people that own the house, and
then three and a half after living there, I got
a really good opportunity that I couldn't pass up
that took us back to Utah, back to Kaysville where we
got the keys to the city, but it was really, really
hard to leave this place, so we're just going to
knock on the door right now. I don't know who lives there,
I don't know what it's like. Maybe they're cool, maybe they're not, maybe nobody's there, but
we're just going to go up and knock on the door and
film it and show you guys what it's like and show you our old house. This is going to be kind of weird, walking up with a camera,
knocking on our old house, let's do it. (bouncy music plays) All right, so we got to stop at this pool, and I'm sure it's closed
this time of year. - Yeah. - The Clubhouse. And this was the community pool. It's closed for the winter. But that was it. There's our little pool. Okay. (soft up-beat music plays) Yeah, do the front one
where you fall down. Jump back further, get
away from that pool. (mumbles) Okay. Okay, go ahead. Just fall. (splash) And then I'd have Lincoln run, and jump, and I would throw the football at him, and he'd have to catch it in the air before he hit the water. Do you remember any of this? - Yeah, I remember all of this. (Lincoln laughs) And there was, like, yoga in here and there was, like, downstairs, and then there was another gym. - That's true. I hope you're enjoying
these, like, old videos of our life and the place
that we used to live. This is a special place for us, but now, this is, like, a little, um,
condo community, basically, and, it's mostly, retirees
that live in this neighborhood, but right at the end of the street, somebody decided to take the condo, and build a second story on it, so once they built the second story, it made it, I think,
thirty-five or thirty-six hundred square feet, so
for us it was perfect. And the other good thing
is that most people that even live in this
little town of Corrales don't even know that this
little community exists. And if they turned in here,
there's so many speed bumps and as you're driving up the road, you know you're not
going the right direction and so usually people would turn around so if any cars ever came
to where our house was, we knew they were visiting us, or else it was something sketchy, and we had to, like,
see what's going down, so, anyway, enough talk, here we go, let's go find our place. (fun, up-beat music) - Da da da! - Ha ha ha. - There she is. - This is it. This is our old house right here. There's a truck here. Are you guys a little, uh, feeling awkward about
walking into someone's house, 'cause they'll know already. - Yeah. - And there's a doorbell on the outside. But they're going to know. - [Ty] Oh yeah. - That nobody ever comes
to their houses out here. - [Ty] Oh yeah. - This is, like, totally secluded. This blue gate over here
I love, this gate is blue. This is our old gate here. Doorbell. (doorbell dings) (door opens) - Hello. - [Speaker] Hi! - We used to live at this house, and so we just had to come by and see the place we used to live. - Are you, Marcum? - Yeah! - Good to meet you! - Nice to meet you. - Come on in. - Look at this, there's
grass inside of here. - She knew. She was like, are you guys from here? - Are you Dan Marcum? Ha ha, that's what she said, Dan. Did she say Dan Marcum? - She said- are you guys the Marcums? - Oh that's awesome. They put artificial turf right here, we could've put a putting
hole right there, but- - That's immediately what you- - And look, there's a waterfall. Okay, this is awesome. - That's a water hazard, right there. That's (mumbles). (laughs) - We've got one dog right
here, one dog right there. They're both just like, "what's, what are you guys up to?" (dogs howl) - Now I'm scared, I'm like, ah, you're going to make them, not like you even more. Do you remember what happened right here in this spot? - Ee, right there. - Right where you're at. - This is where we hung the
pinata for my third birthday. - This is it, right
here, this beautiful rug, like really unique rug, and then we just had the pinata right there, and I would just hang it down, and we could smash the pinata. - What is that in here? - [Speaker] What's in there? (background noise) Oh! You whacked the wheels off! - Come on, let me do another hit. - Daddy, hit! (hits the pinata) - [Speaker] Oh, you
dented the front fender! (hits pinata) (laughs) Yay, I think that's good enough, daddy. Whoa! - Okay this is pretty amazing. The current owners of
our home are super nice, and they let us come in and see the house. A lot of the stuff is the same, and I just get these memories, of like, this is one of the
greatest time of our life, as a young family. This yard, here, we did a few things, and I'm going to show
you a couple of videos, one of them is: Lincoln
learned how to do a slip-n-slide. - That was a fail, that was. - He was not good at slip-n-slides. Right here we had a slip-n-slide. - Yup. (soft, up-beat music) - Yeah, I made it far. Woo! - Okay Claire, your turn. (both kids talking, mumbling) There was a sandbox right here, and Claire went to come in here and she would, like,
put her pacifier in it and she would eat it, and
get dirt all over her face. (laughs) Ew. Look how beautiful this is: these are the sandy mountains right there. - This is the best view to watch, like, the Balloon Fiesta, and, like, yeah. - Yes. Every night of the Balloon
Fiesta there's fireworks that come up just beyond that. Every morning you see hundreds of balloons that just rise up and
come afloat all over here, and then I actually came and cut the turf and put this hole in here and Lincoln used to chip and put all over in this backyard
and hit golf ball, so Lincoln, he has- - It's a right-y (mumbles). - He has a wedge, it's a right-y. Let's do it, let's recreate it. (hits the ball) No, first try, are you kidding me?! (up-beat music) (both) Oh! - [Speaker] Nice one, buddy! Ah, ha ha ha! - [Lincoln] Ha ha. - That really was a first try, he just nailed it. Okay, this is good karma, have you ever wanted to go
back to one of your old houses and see it, like, this is amazing. The last fun thing that
I don't have a video of, is, this right here, we used to put cardboard boxes in here, like a ton of them, and
then we would light it, and you would see a flame that would go up like, ten feet out of the top. (Lincoln laughs) All right, Ty. You can make one? - No. (Lincoln laughs) - Let's do it. Mr. Right-y, you're a
right-y, you can make it. (hits the ball) (laughs) Oh, its going in, yeah, there we go! It's okay, we don't have footage of you as a little kid here. - Yeah. - You didn't have to make it. Okay, go for it. (water balloon explodes) (laughter) This used to be Lincoln's bedroom! - This is my room! My bed was right here. - Okay, go out on the deck. - Okay. - 'cause I'm trying to think of videos and moments that we had
while we lived here, and one of my favorite ones- - It's a double rainbow! - Hey, buddy, what do you see out there? - A rainbow! - Show me where it is. - Right there! Right there! - Wow! It's a beautiful rainbow. - Yeah! Ah! - This tree over here
got struck by lightning while we lived here. - And it was, like, halfway down. - Crazy, crazy memories, guys. This is so much fun, and unexpected. What a trip. Do you remember very much from here? - Oh yeah. I can, I could've walk
through the entire house and I knew what every room was. Like that, that room right
there is the guest room, right beyond that was Claire's bathroom, right beyond that was Claire's room, and then there's, like, a
little, little secret room, and then, yeah. I can remember everything. - That was a fun walk down memory lane. Thank you for letting me indulge you in some of those old videos. I hope that you enjoyed them. - Tease! - Hey, Lincoln. - (mumbles) - So the sun is setting, in
about, five or ten minutes, and we thought, this would
be a great time to go to Old Town. There's the bubble where the pool is, so all year round they have the pool, it's beautiful in the summer, but in the winter you have it, and then, here's the property. Very, very large. Big entrance here. The reason why we came
to the Best Western, off of Rio Grande, is that's it's really close to everything. You can get a shuttle to
all of these different historical areas. The zoo is close by, the science museum, and Old Town, which is, like, the place you've got to go
if you're in Albuquerque. We're taking the shuttle to Old Town. (fun, up-beat music) We made it to Old Town,
first class service. One of the really cool things
you can do in Old Town, is that you have a lot of people, that are Native Americans that are selling the hand-made jewelry. A lot of it has turquoise on it, 'cause, like, turquoise
color is really popular here in Albuquerque, New Mexico, so. Looks like they might be
closing up for the night, but let's see if there's
anything cool that we can buy. - I think that one will fit Claire. - That one looks good. - Yeah. - Yeah? - Yeah. - Okay, get that for Claire. That is perfect for Lennon. Okay, Lincoln, you picked
out the Lennon one, Ty got that one, all right. How much do we owe you for those two? - [Speaker] Uh, just ten even. (up-beat music with banjo) - If you're ever in Albuquerque, make sure you stay at the Best Western, and you take the shuttle to the Old Town. - Yeah. - It was free, other than the tip money that we gave to those guys, and, uh, we bought some cool jewelry. It's like, it's so close to the airport that it's like, if you're already in town, come to Old Town, check out the sites, go get some food, there's
a restaurant back there, that has a giant tree, that goes right through the
middle of the restaurant, and it's the best New Mexican food, and yes there is a difference between New Mexican food and Mexican food, it's a real thing, green chili, red chili, the way that they make their enchiladas and everything here, it's like
nowhere else in the world. Fun fact. (Lincoln and Ty talking in the background) We filmed, what's inside of, um, a rain stick. - Oh, yeah. - We bought that here! - Oh yeah, that's right, I
totally forgot about that one. - We did it, it was THIS gift shop. We're going to go in this gift shop. It has the craziest,
coolest things inside of it. - Oh, that's what this was. - This was it, dude. - Okay, I remembered we went somewhere and bought something, but
I forgot what it was. - Yes, this was the place. There are so many cool things in here. (music) - Dude. - Look at those. - How do you even choose
between all these? - Look at those socks! - Lincoln likes the warmer socks. (maraca) Maracas! Dude, we should get you guys two of these. - These are so fuzzy, I love these! (music) - Why is yours so pointy, Lincoln? (all laugh) - It's so pointy. - Mine is, mine is too, it's just... (Lincoln laughs) - Oh okay, all right, there we go. (music continues) Dude, rain stick, this
is what we cut open here. Do you know what's inside this? - I don't. - It's a bunch of cactus spikes. Something I don't get, you got this pouch of one dozen rattlesnake eggs, ha, like, do they really hatch into something? Do they hatch into anything? - [Worker] No, no. - They don't hatch into anything? - [Worker] No. - It's a joke? That's even more sad. (laughs) (music) The ice cream was good: cookies and cream. Oh, no, I got cookie
dough, what'd you guys get? - Cookies and cream. - Yeah, same. Really, really good. Look at this, you've got some
art here on the bed for us. That used to represent
our eighteen birdies, golfing tournament. - Oh yeah, that's true. - That was a really
special day, no only where we tourist in Albuquerque, one of my favorite cities in the world, but we also got to see
the house that we lived in for so long, so. - It was so cool. - It was really cool. - That was awesome. - And we got to hang
out with Ty, of course. - Ty's the coolest. We were able to do this
super fun trip today, thanks to Best Western Hotels & Resorts for sponsoring this video, really, really fun trip, really, really fun day, and, uh, yeah, one day in Albuquerque, one Saturday in Albuquerque, we had so much fun. Now we're going to go to sleep, and take the shuttle to the airport, say goodbye to our friend Ty, and back home to see the girls, so, super fun trip, hope
you guys enjoyed it. (music) 