When Galileo pointed his telescope at Jupiter
in 1610, he was the first person to see the giant orbs attached to it by springs. His actual drawings, compared night after
night, show these bright spots moving back and forth past Jupiter, exactly the same as
if they were balls hanging off of springs. I mean, yeah Galileo was looking at the moons
of Jupiter, but if you plot their motion back and forth and back and forth over time, it
forms a sine wave. And that motion is mathematically identical
to the motion of something bouncing up and down on a spring with a linear restoring force
- also sine waves over time. From a side-on perspective that projects two
dimensions down to one, things in circular orbits look exactly like they’re springing
back and forth on giant coils of wire. Now, I’m not saying that we should think
of the moons of Jupiter as being held on by giant invisible springs, but it’s a valid
mathematical model when viewing them from a distance – it’ll make the same predictions
about the motions of the moons as the “orbiting in circles due to invisible gravity” model,
and one can be mathematically transformed into the other. The moons of Jupiter aren’t alone in having
multiple mathematical descriptions: projectiles and storms on earth experience a force (called
the Coriolis effect) that causes them to turn, but viewed from an external perspective, the
projectiles and storms are what goes in a straight line while the earth turns beneath
them. Both models, if you use them carefully, make
correct predictions about reality. And quantum phenomena can be modeled in at
least three different ways that all give the same predictions: as a particle being guided
by a spread-out “pilot wave”, or as a spread out probability wave that collapses
to a single point, or as a particle exploring all possible paths it could take and interfering
with itself along the way. All three of these mathematical models suggest
different ways of thinking about what’s “actually” going on in quantum mechanics,
and the fact that all of them give the same experimental predictions suggests that perhaps
none of them is the “right” way to picture what’s happening in quantum systems. Mathematical models give us nice, easy-to-digest
pictures of how the universe works: moons orbit around planets, atoms bind together
into molecules, electrons are clouds of probability, and so on. But we need to be careful how much weight
we give to the models in our heads (or on our blackboards, or computer screens). Do Jupiter’s moons move like they’re pulled
back and forth by the invisible force of springs? Or held in orbits by the invisible force of
gravity? Or are they following helical paths which
are actually straight lines in curved spacetime? The way we describe the world influences the
way we think the world is, even when there are other, equally correct ways of describing
the world that paint entirely different pictures from our own. That’s not to say we should accept wrong
ideas, but we should be aware that sometimes a different correct picture, one we haven’t
considered, is the one we need to see. 