This videos gonna be an interesting experiment to see if we can put out a quick meme Basically, if we mess up one of these shots tomorrow, half the video is ruined Drop it! Before you watch this video make sure that you've gone to the Corridor channel and checked out the World's Bounciest Pogo Stick this Whole video that you're about to watch on. This channel is spoilers for that video So I recommend that you watch it first the links right below me in the description It's the second link check it out and then click back and watch this video because it's gonna make a whole heck of a lot more sense if you do So Sam, and I have been thinking of this corridor video idea It's kind of a continuation of the world's blankety-blank series the whole concept started as a joke between the two of us a pogo stick kinda Just got us laughing Wren builds The world's bouncies pogo stick shows it off to his friends Boing he goes all the way up into the atmosphere and disappears when the camera pans down We're in the same spot, but it's a hundred years later Wren's bones fall and smash Unceremoniously on the ground I was there when the joke was originally murmured. I have a couple concerns if it's not done correctly very quickly become one of those things that's funny to us and us only I mean So the question becomes can they make an inside joke an outside joke? The main thing is we know we need two shots He goes up and he comes down we get a shot of Wren explaining his pogo stick and bouncing away into the sky That's where we start defying expectations We hold on the sky he disappears and as we slowly start panning back down a title comes up that says 100 years later We show a spaceship then we pan down further and we see a cityscape and a future bag, man What's a future bag man? like you would be the scavenger so Final thing that happens right there the sixth thing that happens is the bones and the pogo stick come back down out of outer space And that's already a lot. It doesn't need any more than that. So simple focused yet detailed execution There's always this temptation Especially on the creative side to want to add things because you want to show off how much? You are capable of to the audience but I think the key is really just Boiling it down to what's necessary. If that doesn't happen. This this video is gonna fall completely apart Now we're shooting tomorrow, and we only have a couple hours today to prep it I've been kind of slaving away over this shot list here umm i can Actually show you I think it's complete in the second shot of this video and there's like this trash hobo He's like a scrounger. We gotta find a costume that suits that, we got a lot to work with here I want this trash hobo to have that guttural flair I think the layers will be crucial here like layering different things on top of it. I love this These are these rusty knee plates. These are great sewn leather. What type of skin? Is that? hobos game I think we're kind of assuming that they use pants in the future. I Need another layer at this point. i feel like a vest yeah that one is not bad You look like shrek Get out of my swamp The Shrek pocalypse. The Shrek pocalypse man, and yeah think its the  the accessories that change it. Yeah, that's better How does it look? I dont know. I think you need one of these i think were good this looks pretty solid Also, I don't know what you wrapped your left leg in but I like it That is unexpected i love the asymmetry.  so now that Sam's approved this costume we can make the Pogo stick prop and then I think we're good I need some cool future lighting in here Yeah, of course you pick Shrek green, of course dude,I  love Shrek, so here's our Pogo stick. I think i can actually Pogo stick Are you any good at Pogo stick? - im pretty good man. Oh you just want to show off Nor screwing around no more goofs. Yeah, we're making a Pogo stick what I'm doing to This is kit-bashing it with random stuff that we have to make it look like it's a technological Achievement. So this is gonna be the solar panel front half is silver in the back half because this is for the moon light, moon... Lunar panels,there's a button you just connects to the capacitor upward thrust, you're up there I'm not making this up as i go, we planned it This is the new and improved, world's most bounciest Pogo stick. That will do donkey Oh god. i don't know how this became a Shrek thing. Your whole life has been a stretch thing, you just didn't know it ogers are like onions Layering these distractions. i need another layer Guss what in here. Oh What could it be Its me. Can you imagined actually just holding its skeleton like this by the spine Fatality Were chunking this off a bridge If we mess up one of these shots tomorrow then half the video is not complete Do you like those steaks dude? and we mess up one shot HALF The video is ruined Oh hello Wren, since you died in this video Does that mean this is the last of the worlds biggest videos? No, Technically we all die at the end of the light saber video to Also, I technically died the end of the slingshot video too I go to heaven. is Brenda Kenny of Corridor. he is. Oh my god, they killed Kenny. We're gonna sneak into the LA River looks like there's a whole village that sprung up around it So we might have to like Bribe the city elder Yo, so like what's the script? it's like Wren comes in with the announcement "Guys I built the world's bounciest Pogo stick!" Action. oh guys, check it out. I've Done it this time -Stand back. I don't know how big the shock wave is gonna be 3.2.1 woa -Fatality OH My god Wren that thing's called the ball busters He is already a stunt man in movies -Yeah AHH! Wren! What the? WREN! I dont see him at all. He Disappeared, our baby boy Alright cool, thanks The Pogo stick, When it falls could either go like this and Flip around and the skeleton will just kind of smack in or if it hits point first it could bounce potentially and like we don't know where it's going to go you tied bones to a Pogo stick? It's like mafia shit Next time you give us a bounce check Were gonna make you bounce There we go, you know, here's the pile. This is my swamp Im about to drop a rock Alright it hit right there I'm standing where it hit it's really close. Son That's Sketch Whatever oh no, no, no, I'm doing it if it hits the camera. So be it because like here's the thing. Here's the thing Here's the thing every single time. We think something's gonna hit the lens or hit the camera most of the time it doesn't. we'll get a new lens if we really have to. it will suck Obviously it'll be expensive but the shots we get by being risky are always worth it. Alright you guys ready? Drop on your command. Ready? In 3.2.1 Dropping Perfect. That was totally in frame. That was like almost perfect dude His arms are attached- His arms are still there Think you can still Pogo? uhh no. She doesn't Pogo no mo? She dont Pogo no mo. How was it? Brutal. How was it? It didn't bounce -woahhhhh a little too eager there buddy. pretty much landed exactly how I thought it was gonna land just off to the side But what I didn't anticipate was the skeletons it completely like dismembered itself on impact. It's like splash That's a wrap. That's a Wrap, Wren is so excited Goodbye pogo stick So we have two shots and we have to merge them and make them one shot with a hidden Transition on top of that. We need to make an explosive pogo stick effect And then we also need to make this lavish cityscape. This is a thicc tutorial So we have an iPhone shot which is the first half of the video and that goes all the way up until Wren explodes flies in outer space So I have Wren here. I have him painted out then to just get our super cool giant explosion I'm using a ton of action VFX elements here. I like these dust explosions a lot because they have a lot of power There's a lot junk and debris and also a Video Copilot lens flare to cover it all up So here's Wren's element here just by itself boom disappears. He's going to the head so basically I take Wren's body and I turn it into a 3d layer and I just send that 3d layer up to the Moon WREN! But here's where the crucial part comes in the transition and this is kind of like the hardest part I create a middle shot that matches with the iPhone in the beginning and matches with the red at the end and that way I Don't need to get too specific with how these shots line up Let me show you a little bit of how I did that I start by adding in a literal blue sky element that Tracks up and down here. So if it pans up it pans up to my own sky, this is Sam's the sky I basically have a hand animated 3d camera that generally matches the iPhone so that way when I pan up the Sky and the clouds and Wren all generally line up and are at the right speed So the 3d camera is perfectly smooth, but I'm using one of my favorite favorite plugins It's the red giant camera shake now This thing is a 2d plugin, what this is doing is making it so that it still feels like we're on the iPhone So I can have the realistic camera shake Slow down and then perfectly become still again We pan down we bring the camera shake down we'll bring some noise color grading, vignette up and Best of all, we bring up the big shot to make the big shot. We have a pan down plate here. I Did the actual pan right there while we were filming? I didn't leave that for After Effects sometime when they to do that in post It looks kind of fake and I use the cinema 42 the camera tracking tool and from there I built out this cityscape using a lot of the kibish 3d packs and they are awesome. They're highly detailed We rendered this out with cinema 4d and octane render, Nick boom spaceshi,  boom city, boom haze Alright now, let's put back in some action VFX elements Let's start with dust at camera eight dust front 10. I did MeMa's ashes sprinkling side 04 you need a little bit of grandfather's ashes at cam though. Yeah for you All these cool dust elements are pretty sweet, but I figured hey, you know what? I want to get this thing a little bit of extra spice. I've been inspired by a friend of ours He posts a lot of really great stuff on his Instagram and YouTube channel. Ian. Hubert is an awesome visual effects artist he's got this thing called lazy tutorials and one of them you can see a Similar tutorial to what? I'm about to show you when the spaceship comes over I don't want just a bunch of stock footage smoke and dust coming. I want to do something that is part of the scene I made some rectangles put newsprint textures on them Those were then run through a soft body simulation a cloth simulation technically, so they are actually matching the scene They're matching the lighting. They're matching the lens to show the scale of this spaceship Basically Wren's skeleton was filmed as a second plate as well This is all we're doing we're just adding this Element in and then I do a light mask on it as it collapses down to the ground. So that is the shot It's a lot of stuff going on. This video. Honestly, it was a really really fun experiment to and building on a 3d city It's used in a background Definitely something I want to do a lot more of so that's what went into making the world's bouncies pogo stick if you Enjoyed this Type of video, you know kind of the behind the scenes look at how we make productions here at corridor Then you might want to check out the second playlist down in the description It's chocked full of BTS videos and other educational filmmaking experiments that we've done who knows it might just learn something Thanks for watching Dude Welcome to the pogo stick without moving your head challenge oh i didn't know you were rolling. You were rolling? Wait, keep that up. Keep that up. You cant move your head Subscribe to Corridor Crew! Well Jake,uhhh... this is yours now 