Ah ha, so you think I kinda like you Think you can get me
I think so yaya I toss and turn in bed all night Splashing across the sea of imagination Liar liar liar, oh it can't be Liar liar liar oh oh Let's keep it a secret to him
He needs some time to get ready Not yet, not yet
I can't tell him, yaya His face lingers all day
It keeps my forehead hot See, feel my head
It's serious, yaya I connect the islands floating in my head But I still don't get it, does he love me too? Take a look at you  I toss and turn in bed all night Splashing across the sea of imagination Liar liar liar, oh it can't be Liar liar liar oh oh Are you thinking about me too? Or am I the only one doing this? Liar liar liar, oh it can't be Liar liar liar, oh it can't be, liar  Waves of feelings, an emotional roller coaster I feel brave, but then so insecure Who's that who's that
The pretty girl who said hi She's just a friend yaya Someone please tell me Where should I head now? I'm a lone whale in a pink ocean I connect the islands floating in my head But I still don't get it, does he love me too? Take a look at you I toss and turn in bed all night Splashing across the sea of imagination Liar liar liar, oh it can't be Liar liar liar, yaya Are you thinking about me too? Or am I the only one doing this? Liar liar liar, oh it can't be Liar liar liar, oh it can't be One grand ocean, he came to get me
Oh it can't be, liar  Come like a longing dream
Come, come, come to me, liar The second-hand in my heart
It leans toward me, then back Running against time, but your freedom is over  A Pinocchio inside a pink whale's stomach You're in already, so your nose won't grow I connect the islands floating in my head But I still don't get it, does he love me too? (yaya) I toss and turn in bed all night Splashing across the sea of imagination Liar liar liar, oh it can't be Liar liar liar oh oh Are you thinking about me too? Or am I the only one doing this? Liar liar liar, oh it can't be Liar liar liar, oh it can't be One grand ocean, he came to get me
Oh it can't be, liar  Come like a longing dream
Come, come, come to me, liar The clock is leaning already I'm somewhere in between a dream and reality Imagination's gone out of this world My heart is already with yours 