So we are here behind the scenes at Asus' ROG event where they are showing off [RGB frustration intensifies] All-in-one coolers with Aura Sync RGB on them and 1.77 inch full-colour OLED displays. Yes my friends it has actually come to this We are now putting screens on our CPU coolers and on power supplies too,  but we actually didn't get a long time to look at that one So in a nutshell the ROG Riyu? Riyuu? (its Ryuo, linus) Yes, I think it's Riyu (R Y U O) is available on either 120 mm or 240 mm sizes. In terms of performance, I wouldn't expect anything that different from what you'd get from an Ace Attack All-In-One cooler Since there's a badge right on it that says that it's an Ace Attack design But what you get is an ROG-design fan [uuh] This particular one is 3d printed so [uuh] availability is going to be sometime in Q3, they're not quite done yet and you get the ability to synchronize your CPU block with Aura Sync. Right, back to that display. So this guy right here, they're calling it a Live Dash Display, is a full color OLED that can either take static images, gifs, or system stats and is available in either this configuration with the little round thing here (Ryuo) or Everyone thinks I'm gonna drop this piece of glass. Look, I can pick something up without dropping it Here. Actually yes, you can help me. [breaks said glass] Thank you. Or, as I was saying, this one right here. So this is the higher end Ryujin (oh you got it right now, linus?) I hope I'm pronouncing that right (YES) and the main differences between this one and the other one are that, instead of being available in 120 mm and 240 mm sizes this one is 240 mm for the basic and 360 mm for the high-end one and it comes with a more elaborate CPU block-thing So you get this shroud that sits over top of it and you get a bulkier block design that integrates a 60 mm cooling fan that is designed to give you the best of both worlds, water cooling for your CPU and then air cooling for your RAM modules and your VRMs around the socket And as you can see we have [uuh] helpfully improved the graphics that they have running on this one showing you that yes, you too can have my face on your CPU block if you so desire (hmm) That's right my friends, check out, just go on Google 'Linus kappaface' right there. Put that on your block. No problem Now you will have to pay for the privilege They don't know exact pricing yet But somewhere in the neighborhood of a $100-plus for the low-end one and like $150-plus for this one But is that not a fair price to pay for my face on your CPU? So we'll see you guys at the next booth. Don't forget to subscribe so you don't miss any of our Computex 2018 coverage 