Pretty much everything in the universe is
made out of matter - the earth, air, you and me, stars, interstellar dust - all matter.
By which we mean that these things are made out of electrons and quarks - and very occasionally
other rarer matter particles like muons, tauons, and neutrinos. All of these particles are, at their fundamental
level, excitations in everywhere-permeating quantum fields. But, as the famous quote goes,
“for every particle, there is an equal and opposite antiparticle - an opposite excitation
in the everywhere permeating quantum field that has all of the exact same properties
as that particle - except opposite charge.” And since these antiparticles are opposite
excitations of the quantum field, when a particle and antiparticle meet, they annihilate and
destroy each other! Which is pretty much exactly like how the
equation x^2=4 has two solutions: 2 and -2, with the same value but opposite sign. And
when they meet, they annihilate! Every fundamental particle has an antiparticle:
there are antiquarks, antineutrinos, antimuons, antitauons, and of course antielectrons - though
we call them positrons. Since antimatter particles are essentially
identical to regular matter other than the opposite charge thing, they can combine together
in essentially identical ways to form antiprotons, anti-atoms, anti-molecules, and, in principle,
anything from anti-ants to anti-matterhorns. But we can also make the really cool positronium atom - it’s like hydrogen, except instead of an electron orbiting a proton, it’s an electron orbiting a POSITRON. Until
they annihilate each other in under a nanosecond. because every particle of antimatter annihilates
with regular matter upon meeting, it’s really hard to make anything big out of antimatter
- at this point we’re still only able to make and contain a few hundred antihydrogen atoms at one time. And when they annihilate, the energy of particle
and antiparticle has to go somewhere, which is why matter/antimatter annihilations have
been proposed as bombs. But naturally-occuring antimatter is hard to come by. So, unlike
a uranium fission bomb, which allow us to release the bottled energy of the supernovas
that forged the uranium in the first place, you’d have to put all the energy into an
antimatter bomb yourself by making antimatter. Which you do by agitating empty space into
pairs of matter and antimatter excitations. Kind of like hitting zero with a hammer to
get out 2 and minus 2, except instead of a hammer, you use a particle accelerator or
high-energy photons of light. Photons, incidentally, have zero charge and
so are their OWN antiparticles, in the same way that zero is equal to negative zero! In fact, mathematics has always been closely
tied to antimatter: the mathematics of relativisitic quantum mechanics predicted the existence
of antimatter before any had ever been discovered. The fact that there’s so little antimatter
around in the universe TO discover is both an obvious thing (because if it were around,
it would have destroyed us), a good thing (because it can’t destroy us), and a puzzling
thing - if matter and antimatter are basically identical “mirror” images of one another,
why did the big bang produce so much more matter than antimatter? No one knows - though to physicists, the answer
matters. 