“You have to brace yourself.” It’s hard to think of any other TV series
with as recognizable a tone as Black Mirror. When you slip into a Black Mirror episode
you instantly feel it. it’s bleak, tech-saturated,
infused with subtle foreboding -- though with a down-to-earth, familiar,
not hyper-dramatic feel. It looks like our world,
but something’s off, slanted. Answers are withheld from us,
and as multiple twists and turns unfold in the story, we feel as if we receive the answer
to the question or thought experiment that’s being posed
through the dramatic scenario. “I know people, we love humiliation.” As creator Charlie Brooker once put it,
“Black Mirror is a flavor.” In his words,
“it’s like a box of chocolates in terms of variety,
but they’re all dark chocolates.” This identity is so distinctive that,
in a way, the show itself faces the challenge
of living up to its own past -- of continuing to be
“Black Mirror” enough. Each new episode is judged
based on how well it captures that specific something that felt so original
and particular about “White Christmas,” “15 Million Merits,”
“The Entire History of You,” and so many others. So...how “Black Mirror” is season five? In our “How to Spot the Twists” video
we laid out a blueprint of common patterns in this series
which can actually help you predict where an episode is going. So now we’re going to use those rules
to determine how well season five’s three installments
channel the show’s special recipe -- and in the end we’ll decide which episode
is the most Black Mirror. to get a full month
of Mubi for free. One guideline we outlined
in our Twists video is, watch for repetitions. If a Black Mirror episode
keeps returning to a key detail, pay attention -- because this just might unlock
where the story is going. In Season 5’s first episode,
“Striking Vipers,” a central theme keeps resurfacing,
role-play. It’s highlighted in the opening scene, “You here by yourself?” “So far.” “Oh. It's a shame. A pretty girl like you.” As young couple Theo and Danny connect
through pretending to be strangers “That little role-play act,
the stranger thing at the bar? Got me hot as fuck”. After the episode flashes forward
11 years, the story transitions into
portraying a different kind of role-play that’s a fixture in our society -- numbly performing the part
of the “responsible adult”. “Simons into bikes.” “Do you like motorcycles or just bikes?” “Just bikes.” We get recurring hints
that our now “adult” couple continues to be drawn to strangers. Like this shot of Danny
looking out the window at a random woman. Theo observing a couple’s
public display of passion, and her temptation
when a stranger makes a pass at her. “There was a guy at the bar
earlier tried hitting on me. Half of me wanted him to,
just for some excitement, some fucking passion.” The magnetic appeal
of the stranger here might remind us of Eyes Wide Shut,
Stanley Kubrick’s meditation on the surprising connection
between the erotic and the anonymous. In that movie,
an upper-class husband and wife who appear like the perfect couple
both harbor secret fantasies of sleeping with other people. In “Striking Vipers,” though,
the ultimate exciting taboo isn’t sex with a stranger,
but with a friend. Danny and his best friend Karl
discover a potent connection, but only when they’re outside
their own bodies, role-playing, Via virtual reality, other people. “It was the best sex of my life. Best of your too.” So the nuanced insight
that comes through in this repetitive emphasis
on “role-play” is that -- even if one of the problems
of modern adult life is that we’re constantly pretending,
pretending also seems to be the solution
to holding on to our passion. “Mental note to self, my baby's into
role-play.” Mysteriously,
the episode seems to suggest romantic excitement depends
on this sense of escapism, and not feeling like ourselves. Another guideline in our Twists video
is to “focus on the people, not the tech.” We might get fearful when --
like so many Black Mirror characters before them -- Danny and Karl
stick something in their temples. But the story isn’t about this game,
it’s about the players. The video game
is not creating a new need between Danny and Karl, it’s an outlet for a connection
that was already between them, but they didn’t know how
to express before. “I tried it with real players. Other folks, controlling Lance. But it didn't get me. It didn't get me, not like when we're in there.” Brooker has said that the episode
is about, quote, “male friendship and the issues that men have
communicating with each other.” “Guys suck at talking.” And he also said
one of his inspirations was the, quote, “homoerotic nature”
of fighting games like Tekken. This is underlined by the phallic name
of the video game, “Striking Vipers,” and the way that multiple scenes
blur the line between fighting and sexual urges. So the episode gets us thinking
about male intimacy and whether men’s passion
for sports or other violent outlets
reveal a desire to connect more deeply than socially accepted,
behavior allows. “Lord, hug each other. Guys can be so awkward.” On some level
the story is exploring the passion we have
for our friends and how they may be
the greatest loves of our lives. If we met them in a physical form
that we found sexually attractive, these buried feelings
might be expressed more dramatically. When Karl comes to Danny’s barbecue
and says, “Oh, wow, handshake? What am I, like, infected or something?” This line might remind us
of our rule to “Notice the things that seem off
or disproportionate. Don’t brush them off.” Why does Karl use this sharp word
“infected”? - is there some kind of disease
that these men are afraid of catching? There's a fear of expressing
their full feeling for each other, fear that it puts them
into a category they're not comfortable with. “So, guess that's us gay now. That’s a joke.” But what's interesting
and has a satisfying "Black Mirror" complexity
about their connection is that it can't be defined
by any common label. It might remind us of the series' other
most iconic romances which also involve elements
of virtual reality or digital copies of consciousness, things that make us tempted
to say "this isn't real,” when in fact,
the episode is speaking to the way technology
could increasingly become the most effective outlet
for our realest emotions and sensations. “Striking Vipers” raises the question
of whether the two men are discovering homosexuality. “Nope. Not a damn thing.” “No, me neither” Or whether it’s just about
the virtual reality game. “I tried fucking
other computer controlled characters, it’s bullshit.” “Shut up.” “It’s like a rubber doll.” But in typical Black Mirror fashion,
the episode veers away from simple binary answers
and instead gives us a more complicated explanation. Brooker himself said, quote,
“Is it a homosexual relationship? In some ways it is, and in other ways
it absolutely isn’t.” “How does it feel, I mean like,
for you, being in a woman’s body?” The episode channels Black Mirror
at its best through the payoff. At Danny and Theo’s anniversary dinner,
Theo describes commitment as sacrifice. “It's part of being in a partnership,
you shut the door on all that shit. You shut it out
because you have committed.” This suggests that Danny
is going to have to give up either A) his video game romance
or B) his marriage. But in the end there’s an option C- He and Theo give each other
a free pass to pencil in time for the passion that makes them feel
alive. “I want that back in the morning.” “Ditto.” This ending is a surprising third path,
just as the episode’s layered, ambiguous answer about whether Danny
and Karl are in love stays with us more
than a straightforward yes or no. And it’s spiritually bleak
in a fitting “Black Mirror” way - representing the compromise
of being an adult -- a conclusion that’s very sad,
but which also captures something very true about our modern lives. “Family life. Shit- but I’m loyal.” In “Smithereens,” once again
the repetitions here are key clues helping us anticipate what’s coming, “Is that where you work,
where I picked you up?” “At Smithereen?” “Do you work in that place?” “Smithereen?” But the biggest rule
that leaps to mind is don’t trust your main character. Black Mirror protagonists
are usually hiding something from us. Here, not trusting is easy
because it seems clear from the outset that there’s something wrong with Christopher
-- from his shifty eyes
and awkward interactions with passengers, to the fact
that he’s eager to drive employees of this place called “Smithereen”
and a little too interested in it. And the way that he doesn’t share
in his support group. “ I just haven’t found
the right moment yet.” At times, “Smithereens”
feels like a Black Mirror spin on Martin Scorsese’s Taxi Driver. Like in Taxi Driver, there’s a tension, because the structure
of the episode kind of forces us to identify with this questionable
character, but our instincts
resist this identification. Still,
as in season three’s “Shut Up and Dance,” we’re kept in the dark
about what exactly is driving our main character
until late in the episode. “How young was I? In pictures?” So in classic Black Mirror fashion,
the secrets come from within us, or the person we're identifying with. In our twists video
we advised you to look out for red herrings
that are there to throw you off. Here, the way that the episode encourages us
to distrust our main character is a red herring. This leads to our first twist --
that Chris is not a villain, but a victim. “Drunk driver plowed right into him. Two dead, including the drunk.” But the next rule that comes to mind
is "Don't trust the first twist." There’s more to the story. We start to put together
the pieces that -- given Chris’s insistence
on speaking to Billy Bauer -- “I just want to speak to Billy Bauer,
on the phone.” Maybe this guy is the one
who violated Chris in some way. But something is still off --
it’s hard to see how the founder of this tech company
is connected to the car accident Chris was apparently the victim of. So the next twist is that --
even though the drunk driver was officially at fault --
Chris in fact caused the crash, because he was looking at his phone. “There's this little notification thing
saying someone liked a comment that I made about some photo of theirs. I just glanced at it, you know. That's all the time it took.” So it turns out that Billy
was in some sense the villain or to blame for doing something to Chris
but not in the big, personal, specific way we expect. Only in the small, everyday,
universal way that social media victimizes all of us daily. “I heard that you make these things
that way. Addictive. So that you can't
take your eyes off them.” By addicting us,
clamoring for our attention, to suck up our time
with meaningless nothings. To avoid getting distracted
by all the red herrings along the way, “Chris thinks it’s about money
but it’s actually about status.” As we talked about in our twists video,
we have to try to zero in on the thought experiment
at the center of the episode. “Smithereens” gives subtle hints
that it’s going to be about the destructive power
of our social media addiction through its emphasis on the way
technology overtakes and mediates the social interactions we see. Christopher is a driver
for an Uber-like ride share app. He sits in a cafe
and can’t stand the sight of everyone on their phones. He criticizes Jaden
for being so wrapped up in his phone that he didn’t notice
he was being driven out to the middle of nowhere. “The sky could turn fucking purple
and you cunts wouldn't notice for a month. You didn't look up
and look where that got you, sitting in the back like that.” The small yet insidious way
that Billy has violated Chris connects to the episode’s title,
“Smithereens” -- A word meaning fragments or bits,
which we most often hear in the expression
“blown to smithereens.” It’s significant that the Twitter
or Facebook-like company at the center of the story
is called “Smithereen” singular, A word that you don’t actually hear
in common usage, since smithereens is a plural noun. This highlights the thematic interest
of this episode -- technology is leaving us fragmented. The story following Chris
captures what this feels like for each of us as individuals --
as we’re each isolated, turned into one lonely smithereen --
something that should only exist in the plural. Watching this episode we might think
of our rule, look at the people, not the tech. Black Mirror usually makes the point
that the problems in our technology, come from the humans beings who design it
and use it in ways that reflect our most sinister motivations. Here that’s the case, too, “There’s like some kind of Vegas Casino
where we’ve sealed off all the fucking doors. They've got a department,
all they do is tweak it like that on purpose.” But this episode
has a slightly different takeaway, as it underscores
that we can’t really blame ourselves for what we do
“under the influence” of our phones. The technology is now so addictive
that social media is essentially our society’s new
substance abuse problem. “Like, my phone was glued to my hand. I was the whole cliche, you know, first thing I saw in the morning,
last thing I saw at night.” It’s intentional that this episode
connects using a phone while driving to drunk driving -- and according to
the Brain Injury Society, texting while driving
is basically equivalent to getting behind the wheel after drinking 4 beers. This episode is grappling
with the question of who’s to blame for our tech addiction problem -- Every twist invites us
to guess who’s going to be the villain or victim here. Yet the “answer”
to this blame question is appropriately unsatisfying -- There are people at fault
but it’s impossible to really hold them responsible,
as so many are complicit. In Smithereen CEO Billy Bauer Brooker
carefully avoided the easy caricature of the tech founder
as a shallow bad guy-- “There’s gotta be something
that I can do. Even if it’s something small.” Although he did say
the idea of Billy being on a silent retreat came from the story
that Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey did exactly that. Overall, Billy is portrayed
as a sympathetic figure who’s out of his depth
and can’t reign in the monster of his own making. “I mean, it got there by degrees,
you know, they said ‘Bill, you gotta keep optimizing,
you gotta keep people engaged.’ Until it was more like a crack pipe.” At one point Billy compares himself
to God. “Tipi, really the only good thing
about my position is every once in a while
I get to invoke God-mode.” -- but this God has no real control anymore, “I started it,
there’s nothing I can do to fucking stop it.” Reminding us that there is no savior
who can rescue us from this situation. We’re too far gone in our addiction. The other important rule
to keep in mind for Smithereens is to ask:
where’s the humanity? Black Mirror usually warns us
to be wary of our tech-driven world and start valuing each other more. But “Smithereens” tells us
it may be too late for human empathy to make much of a difference. Christopher adored his fiancee,
but his addiction to his phone made him her inadvertent killer. “I killed her over a fucking dog photo.” Billy’s attempt to relate to Christopher
is futile. “Shut up! I don't give a fuck what you do now. Beat yourself up
or fucking run a victory lap, I don't care.” Jaden leans into his humanity
when he chooses to stay in the car and try to talk Christopher
out of committing suicide. “Don't kill yourself, man.” But this ends in shots fired at the car,
implying that probably Christopher, or possibly both men, don’t survive. And the ending montage
shows people getting a notification about what happened, as we hear the song “Can’t Take My Eyes Off of You.” Brooker said that this scene
was about how, quote, “this massive drama —
this most important day in several people’s lives —
was reduced to ephemeral confetti that just passes us by.” So in other words,
this really important event is just another “smithereen”
vying for attention along with the latest cute photo
of a dog. Which forces us to wonder,
how much of our humanity have we already lost
when this profound human suffering no longer touches us? “Smithereens” is the rare
Black Mirror episode set in a world that feels
pretty much like our present day, with today’s or near-future technology. Thus this episode is a warning,
maybe our world has now passed a tipping point
and become Black Mirror. Our technology usage
has already gotten to a place of being seriously creepy. We are living in this cautionary tale,
and the scary future this show has been depicting for five seasons
is fast becoming our present. “Nobody wants to hear
that their daughter is dead because I was looking at my phone.” Notice what seems “off”
in each episode -- don’t brush it off --
as this is a hint the show is giving us. In “Rachel, Jack and Ashley Too”
we immediately get a strange feeling from Ashley’s aunt Catherine. “Hey, Ashley, everything okay?” “Yeah, I'm fine.” “You taking your meds?.” You could rush to explain away
Catherine’s dismissing of Ashley’s true artistic persona, “She’s Ashley O
not Lenard fucking Cohen.” As no more than the expected cynicism
of the savvy businesswoman. But the “off” feeling
we pick up on is revealed to be
more than justified, “I powdered your pill stash
and put it in your food.” This reveal is the first twist. But, we should know that
more twists are coming. The Ashley Too doll
tells the girls that it needs their help gathering evidence against Catherine,
only to pull the plug on Ashley instead. And, in the final twist,
Ashley wakes up after all. So this episode lives up
to the Black Mirror promise of multiple turns to the story. The key rule for this episode
is don’t buy into the social hierarchy, question the values. “Pitch shift? Increase the positivity.” Here, we’re meant to focus
on the values of our culture of fandom. Brooker has said
he was inspired by star Miley Cyrus’s real-life experience
doing a cameo with an act aimed at an older demographic. He said, quote, "she went on stage
and looked out into this massive auditorium
and no-one was filming it on a phone, they’re all looking at her,
and she hadn’t seen that for about ten years,
it was just like a sea of human faces and that had affected her quite a bit.” So this reminds us
that fans often aren’t really seeing this person they claim to love so much. “I’m such a huge fan.” The story here
has a number of eerie parallels to the Free Britney movement. The Ashley Too doll
and the giant hologram at the end are two fake versions of Ashley
that people get to connect with, never knowing the real Ashley. “Ashley, go to sleep.” “Ashley, go to sleep.” And we too may be using
our favorite performers, demanding that they fit
our image of them. “That was awful.” Just as the “limiter”
on the Ashley Too doll ensures that fans interact only
with the fake, sunny persona the star uses in press conferences. “Limiter?” “Yeah, like a firewall. It only let me use four percent of my brain.” In recent years
we’ve seen the hologram trend take off with late artists
like Tupac Shakur and Whitney Houston. “Photo-realistic and fully controllable,
right down to instant costume changes.” Brooker has said, quote, “It’s notable that
a lot of these people who are being regurgitated
by the industry as holograms are people who met
very tragic circumstances, and you feel that the industry
possibly hasn’t looked after them correctly.” The episode suggests that audiences
want someone who doesn’t show any messy complexity
or genuine emotion -- essentially, an artist
who isn’t really human. “Never exhausted, never sick,
always pitch perfect, bringing her A-game.” Even at the end of the episode,
when Ashley is finally free to perform the kind of music
she wants to, it’s in a smaller venue --
so Catherine was right that this kind of honest material
isn’t as appealing to a mainstream audience. “The other day I walk in
and she's writing some obtuse bullshit twenty people are gonna relate to
and no one is gonna buy.” The two sisters are also mirrors
of the two sides of Ashley. Jack is the dark,
angry internal self who’s in pain and likes alternative music. “Pixies, Sonic Youth, Idles, Savages.” Rachel is the sweet people-pleasing self
that aligns with Ashley’s public persona. “Oh my god I’m such a huge fan.” Rachel, Jack, and Ashley
are all motherless young women. “Do you know how old I was
when your parents died? 22 years old.” The episode shows
how when a parent is absent, “It's on Wednesday.” “What is?” “Her birthday.” The art and celebrities we idolize
can take a central role in raising us. Yet there’s an interesting critique here
of our culture’s assumption that positivity
and wholesome empowerment messages are good for young people. “Believe in yourself,
you can do anything.” “Oh come on man, Catherine trained me
to say that kind of shit in interviews.” Rachel eats up the empty,
sugar-coated platitudes that Ashley Too feeds her, “If you believe in your self,
you can do anything.” “Okay, okay, I'll do it.” But the doll’s simplistic advice,
applied to a harsh, high school environment,
just leads Rachel to embarrass herself and feel cut off
from actual other students. “Hi I’m Ashley Too,
I’m your only friend.” For both sisters, and for Ashley,
what really helps them is communicating with
their dark feelings, finding outlets to express what’s raw
and real. Even if this isn’t what most
of the consuming audience wants to hear, this is the true human value
that the arts can offer. So the message here fits very much
with the Black Mirror rule that we should always ask
“Where’s the humanity?” In the end of this episode,
humanity is restored, and while the ticket sales are down,
these teens have learned to process and work through their pain. While the set-up of
“Rachel, Jack and Ashley Too” is very Black Mirror, there’s not a big payoff
that offers a surprising answer to the “question” at hand -- it’s pretty clear to see
who the villain is and where the message is going. And the episode’s sunny,
unambiguous conclusion lacks the dread, creepiness
and uncertainty that tends to be present,
at least subtly, even in installments with happy endings. Taking all this together,
we’d say “Rachel, Jack and Ashley Too” is the least Black Mirror
of season 5’s episodes. And our selection
for the most Black Mirror episode is… Drumroll please… “Smithereens.” Episode 2 not only puts into practice
the most of our “black mirror” rules and embodies the Black Mirror tone
in characteristic ways, but it also lives up
to the show’s promise in a new way, by revealing that no futuristic,
sci-fi embellishments are needed to make our present day
look like a dystopia. In “Smithereens,”
the mirror isn’t black anymore… it’s just a mirror. The through line in all three episodes
is addiction or obsession. “Everywhere you look,
people are hooked on the things! It's like chain-smoking.” “We don’t have to completely cut it off,
what about like the first Sunday of each month?” “No.” “When?” “Karl, it has to stop.” “It was an intervention,
that thing was poison.” And the undercurrent
of that obsession is loneliness -- as underlined by the song
in the trailer for Season 5, “Lonely Feelings.” “Family life, it’s boring.” Notably, all of these episodes
feel like they’re in worlds pretty similar to our times -- So there’s a message coming through
that, already, our current emphasis on tech-enabled communication
is making many people feel horribly disconnected and alone. Ultimately,
while it’s important to channel that classic Black Mirror magic,
this series is at its best when it also tries new things
to surprise us, to question our assumptions,
and to remind us to look before we leap. In this season,
the central thought-experiment did that, by asking
the scariest question of all, what if we’re already in Black Mirror? “Finally, an act that will make
the live audience Just clink the link
in the description below. 