So you want to break up with your significant other. Probably for the best. Personally I didn't really think you guys were very good for each other, but I respected your decision and I'll resist the urge to say I told you so. But look breakups are like Mondays, they're both messy so before you break up with this person, please heed my words of wisdom so that you do not have a huge awful mess on your hands Here's how not to break up with your significant other. [whoosh] Don't break up over text messaging. The relationship that dies by text messages, probably lived by text messages too. In fact that's probably how it all got started. She sent you the kissy face emoji didn't she? [whoosh] Hey, I have a question. What is the question? It's something kind of scary? What is the question? I'm so nervous to ask this? What is the question? Can we be official boyfriend and girlfriend with each other? Baby, you know you are the only one for me. I love you, baby! [whoosh] If you're gonna break up with someone, at least have the courage to do it face-to-face, instead of writing out a novel on your iPhone. [whoosh] Babe it is not you, it is me. This is the hardest thing I've ever had to do. Please don't be mad at me. Hi, Baby! Are you ready to go to the movie? Uh, where's your phone? Uh, it broke this morning. Why, were you texting me? N- no. Uh, (stutters) let's, let's just go. Okay! [whoosh] Don't break up over Snapchat. [whoosh] Think, if you had to break up in [ten] seconds or less, how would you do it? the correct answer is don't do it that way hey? Hi, Katy, just wanted to let you know that it's over. Hey, Katy, pay no attention to this balloon that just popped up there. You know why? Because it's not true! Dear Katy, wanted to tell you a long story in a short snap. We're breaking up. No explanation, bye-bye! [whoosh] Don't break up by ignoring them. This is the easiest way I know of in the entire world to be a little baby. Not even to having the dignity, the courage of breaking up over text messaging you little (doink)... it's a darn shame. [whoosh] Hey, you haven't been responding in my text messages, is everything okay? Yes, everything is fine. Trust me. Are- are you sure? Yeah, yeah, I'm positive, okay? Just, we're still together, okay? This is just how I'm gonna act from now on. (silence) Leave. [whoosh} Don't break up by cheating on them. [whoosh] What a disappointment you are to your parents when you do this. Do you think your parents are proud of you when you pull these stunts? My son Randy, you've met Randy before. Randy is a real gem of a kid, let me tell you what he just did. He had this sweet girlfriend named Sharon, but he decides one day that he's too good for Sharon, so this is the best part, he decides he's not gonna break up with Sharon, he decides is gonna start cheating on Sharon with the sweet little freshman named Julie! (laughs), I'm just- mm, so proud of him. [whoosh] don't ask your friend to break up with them for you [whoosh] Don't put this on your friend. Your friend doesn't deserve this. If you actually have a friend willing to do this for you, you don't deserve them. Either that or they're crazy. Hey, bro. I got some bad news for ya. What is it? Yeah, you and Sally are done. (laughs) What- what are you talking about? She just told me you guys are through. Why would she tell you instead of telling me though that- Oh, oh, because I think that she wanted me to tell you So so you're breaking up with me for her? Yeah, and it gets even worse for you, bro, because now I'm dating her. (laughs) (laughter slows and turns monochrome) (Jordan punches Josh, and he falls over) (catchy ending tune) (more catchy end tune) Hey Katy, You know what the smartest thing Albert Einstein ever did? E = mc breaking up with you- Hey, Katie, you know what Tom hanks says? Break up! 