because getting an introvert to return your feelings can sometimes feel impossible. Guy: "Return my feelings? I just want to get her to return my phone calls! *angry* So first things first We need to determine if you're actually crushing on an introvert and I have a joke that will help you figure it out Here's the joke: Answer: they already told you like five times. Yes, that's right, I'm declaring it here and now, introverts are the new vegans. Except there's even less meat in the conversation *audience booing* No shade intended, okay? I mean what's not to love about the introverts? There are so many pros to having an introvert as a significant other. They don't spend much money because they rarely leave the house. Cashier: "All right, will this be cash check or charge?" Introvert: "Charge, charge, no, no, no recharge! I need to recharge. I gotta get out of here!" They're low maintenance and there's very low chance that they will ever cheat on you Guy: "Hey, hey, good lookin' you want to get some coffee later? Just as friends of course." Introvert: "Are you kidding me?!? I can barely keep up with one relationship. I mean you're cute or whatever, but that sounds like a nightmare." So if you would like to have your very own introvert to have and to hold for as long as you both shall binge watch, here are four things to keep in mind when trying to woo an introvert. Number one: Very occasionally an introvert will share their feelings with you and you have to be ready! Introvert: "I think it all started when I was six." *gasps* "Really? Guy: "Go on." There's no rhyme or reason to it but As the introvert feels more and more safe with you, they'll begin to, you know, open up. If you do not listen even just once, fare thee well, my friend. Introvert: "I think it started when I was six." Guy: "I think it started when I blew shelled Luigi! Victory feels so sweet!" Number two: Just as important as listening to what they say when they talk to you is listening to what they're saying when they're not talking to you. Introverts just need their space and honestly the more understanding you are of this the more likely it is that, you know, they will include you in their quiet times. That's It's a paradox. Guy: "Hey, do you wanna hang out tonight?" Introvert: "Oh, I don't know, I kind of have a lot of things on my to-do list." *sad music* Guy: "Okay" Guy: "Hey, I heard you mention that you had a big to-do list today. I hope you can get it all done. If you want to hang out when it's over, let me know." Introvert: "Oh, wow, that's so thoughtful. If you want you can tag along today." Guy: "I did it!" Number three: good surprises vs. bad surprises. Good surprise: Guy: "Surprise! I bought you a book I thought you would like." Introvert: "Oh, thank you! Now I can go read this alone!" Guy: "That was the point!" Bad surprise: Guy and people: "Surprise!" Introvert: "Oh, you threw me a surprise party." Guy: "Yeah, I wanted to show you how I feel about you." Introvert: "Noted." Good surprises give the introverts space to think and rest. Bad surprises my friend puts the introvert on the spot Okay, but here's the most important one, guys, number four: make them feel understood. Introverts they worry very often that they're a burden or that they're weird or that they're getting in the way. So they don't know how to express how they want to be loved because they don't want to be annoying. But if you go that extra mile and you let the introvert in your life know that you actually care enough to figure out what makes them tick--look I don't want to be hyperbolic but at that point, can you go ahead and start planning the wedding? Yes. *bridal chorus* If you can make an introvert feel understood and respected, then they shall fall in love with you. Happily ever after. And this video solved everything. You're welcome. Oh, hey, I heard you mentioned earlier that you have it to do list for today. I hope you get it all done And if you want to hang out after it's over Guy: "Hope you get it all done." Kelli: "You sound like a--preacher." "Hope you get it all done." Guy: "Hey, I heard you mentioned earlier that you had a big to-do list for today, well," People: "Surprise!" Kelli: "My voice cracked." Introvert: "I mean you're super cute, but that sounds like--a nightmare" 