Hi everyone and welcome to Tasting
History. Today we're making hippocras, it's a medieval spiced wine.
You might know it as one of the drinks that they're constantly imbibing on Game
of Thrones. It is one of the easiest recipes i've
done yet, and it is one of the hardest recipes i've
done yet. Easy, because other than just grinding up spices, and waiting a day
there's not a lot to do. Hardest because getting the spices... not
simple especially during quarantine. So today I'll teach
you how to make your own hippocras at home, and give you a few cheats just in
case you don't feel like scouring the globe for certain spices, because
frankly unless you're studying to become a sommelier, wine should not be a source
of stress for anyone. So let us make like Cersei Lannister and
get ourselves a glass of hippocras, this time on Tasting History. Now there are dozens of recipes for this
drink, but I am going to go to my old standby
The Forme of Cury, the 14th century recipe book from
England. It's one of, if not the first recipe to use the term hippocras,
and what's interesting is most of the recipes in The Form of Cury are in Middle English, but this one and only this one is in a
weird bastardized 14th century French. So i'm actually going to put the
original French recipe alongside the modern translation so
you can see where we get some of the words,
there's I think you'll understand a lot more than than you might think. To Make Hippocras: three ounces of
cinnamon, and three ounces of ginger, spikenard of
spain the size of a denier (a small french
silver coin), galangal, cloves, long pepper, nutmeg,
marjoram, cardamom, a quarter ounce one-tenth ounce grains of paradise, and
powdered cinnamon, etc. You could never get away with just
saying etc at the end of a modern day recipe, but
whatever. Now it's interesting because this recipe gives us
very exact amounts for each of the ingredients
which is not common in a 14th century recipe, but what it doesn't give us
is any instruction on what to do with these ingredients,
and it's missing one rather key ingredient:
the wine. So to crack this nut I have scoured several
later recipes to find clues on exactly the method uh to make the drink, and how
much wine to use, and what kind of wine to use. Also some
of the later recipes offer more easy to find spices so i'll
mention those as alternatives to things like spikenard,
not easy to find. So before we get started make sure to
hit that Like button while you contemplate how many times I had to
re-record that last section, because I kept saying hippogriff when I
meant to say hippocras. So first the wine. Good news you can
pretty much use whatever you want, because
they mention everything red, white, sweet, dry,
didn't really matter so it is up to you.
Now as far as how much wine, that is a little bit harder. It wasn't until 1660
that I found a recipe (I didn't find it in 1660), a 1660 recipe
from The Accomplished Cook by Robert mMay where he specifies
one gallon of wine for a recipe that has three ounces of cinnamon which is the
same amount of cinnamon that we're using in our recipe so I figure that's that's
going to be about right. Now a gallon of wine back then was a
very common way of bottling it so it makes sense I'm not going to make a
gallon so I will adjust the amounts to make quite a
bit less. Now other than using three ounces of
cinnamon Robert May's recipe is vastly different from the one that we're using
today from The Forme of Cury. First it includes cream which is
interesting in wine, and second it has three pounds of sugar,
three pounds of sugar. That's a lot of sugar.
Our recipe doesn't use sugar at all, most recipes actually do include a bit of
sugar, but I want to stick to The Form of Cury.
So as much as I love sweet things I will not
be adding sugar. Now when it comes to the method they
also run the gamut, some have you heating the wine, some don't,
some have very complex methods of adding spices, and removing
spices the next day, and adding other spices using three different pots, and
a lot, and then some of them are just like throw the spices in wait a day and
then strain it. That's the one that we're going to use,
because why not. So for this recipe you will need
two bottles, or 1500 milliliters of red, or white wine, one ounce or 28 grams of
cinnamon sticks, one ounce or 28 grams of fresh ginger, a
quarter teaspoon of spikenard. Now I had never heard of spikenard,
though I found out that it's also called nard which was
the oil that Mary Magdalene used to clean Jesus's feet when they were at
the house of Lazarus, so kind of cool, but I didn't know
what it smelled or tasted like, and it's so interesting because
really i've never smelled anything quite like it. It's
musky, and earthy yet extremely sweet and clean at the same time. It
almost reminds me of the scent of the desert after it
rains. If you've ever been in the desert after it rains, I grew up
in Arizona, so I know that smell well. One teaspoon of galangal, one teaspoon of
cloves. They could have been closed like we used
today, or they could have been gilly flower
clove. Unfortunately the same term was used throughout history to mean
two different things, so nobody really knows.
Everyone will debate, but we're going to use cloves, regular old cloves.
One teaspoon of long pepper, here's another one that you might not know.
It kind of looks like a stretched out pine cone to me,
and it tastes like pepper. Like regular black pepper,m but sweeter
and at the same time quite a bit hotter, so very interesting
worth finding if you can. One teaspoon of nutmeg,
one teaspoon of marjoram, one teaspoon of cardamom,
half a teaspoon of grains of paradise. Now this is the one that took forever to get here. I guess you can sometimes find it in some stores,
but during quarantine I couldn't and I had to order it from a farm in
Ghana. It took four months to get here. When I tasted it, and I
and I just tasted one little little kernel, or
corn I guess, it had kind of a sweet peppery flavor mixed with
something a little bit more aromatic than regular pepper, and
then all of a sudden a wave of heat that was like I had just
eaten a tablespoon of black pepper, it was very interesting.
And a half teaspoon of ground cinnamon. So like I said some of those spices are
going to be a little hard to find, so if you're in a hurry to get your
hippocras on (sounds like hippo croissant),
uh weird um then go ahead and use some more more nutmeg, black pepper, powdered
ginger, and even rosemary because all of those are mentioned in later recipes,
and of course if you want to sweeten it up you can use sugar which was
considered a spice than. So the first thing to do is pour your
wine into a large container, then break up your cinnamon sticks, and
chop your fresh ginger. Then grind up the rest of your spices,
and they don't need to be ground up super super fine so just do your best,
and I apologize to marjoram which is technically an herb, and not a spice but
it's all a little a little weird. Now while spices are not as expensive as
they were in the 14th century they are still kind of expensive, especially some
of those harder to find ones. So I wanted to thank several of my
patrons the Marshals of the Spicery for helping me afford such luxurious
items I doff my cap to you all, If I only had
a cap, if I only had a cap. ♪ So once you've
ground your spices start adding them directly into the wine
and give everything a good mix, and then we wait. About a day, even two.
Every once in a while you can go ahead and give them a give it
another mix, but really just leave it in the pitcher, and let the
spices do their work, and while we wait it is the perfect
excuse to take a look at why Europe fell in love with
hippocras. "He drynketh ypocras, claree, and
vernage of spices hoote t'encressen his corage."
And essentially that means he drank spiced wines to increase his desire,
no wonder it stayed popular for so long. One of the first recipes we have for
spiced wine comes from the Apicius De Re Coquinaria
from the 4th century, and the very first two recipes in the collection
are for spiced wine surprise, and spiced honey wine for travelers.
By the early middle ages a drink called piment crops up
in several manuscripts from Catalan in modern Spain,
and in the 1180s Chrétien de Troyes wrote an Arthurian legend about the
quest for the holy grail during which Sir Percival drinks a cup
of piment after each meal. For some reason the term piment falls
out of use, and is replaced in the 14th century
by hippocras or ypocras. This is probably due to the fact that the spices
were drained out of a manicum hippocraticum, or
hippocratic sleeve. A popular tool of your friendly neighborhood apothecary.
It was a conical cloth bag devised by the 5th century BC physician
Hippocrates. Now right about now you're probably asking
why are people adding all these spices to the wine? Why not just drink the wine,
and there are three popular theories. For the first we have to trot out those
four old chestnuts: The Humors. Come on out here you crazy guys!
We have Blood, Yellow Bile, Black Bile, and Phlegm.
Often attributed to Hippocrates himself, medieval medicine was all about
controlling your humors, and keeping them in balance
to stay healthy, and I go into more detail in another video on the
Black Plague, and the four Humors which I'll link in the description,
but essentially one way to control your Humors was through food,
and each food was given different degrees of hot, cold,
wet, and dry and wine was no different. So the theory was that if you say took a
cold, wet wine, and added hot dry spices in the correct
amounts then it would become the perfect
medicinal beverage, and was often served at the end of feasts to
aid in digestion. A second theory suggests that the spices
were added there to kind of spruce up a wine that was maybe
subpar so if you had a bottle of Two Buck Chuck that was about to go bad,
and you threw in some cinnamon you're good to go, but frankly
if you could afford cinnamon in the Middle Ages you could probably afford
better wine, so I don't know about that one. Then
there's the third theory which is the theory of why people do anything to
their food, and that's because it tastes good. You know pretty simple,
and it must have tasted good because it was all the rage throughout Europe in
the Middle Ages, but in the 1430s hippocras fell in
with one bad dude. He was the Baron Gilles de Rais,
distinguished soldier and comrade in arms of Joan of Arc during the Hundred Years
War, also arguably history's first recorded
serial killer. And I'm not going to go into details
about his crimes, but in his confession
it is gruesome. Essentially he plied hundreds of young children
with hippocras, and then killed and dismembered them.
Pretty disturbing, and poor hippocras's name got
dragged through the mud along with him, but just as people kept drinking
Kool-aid after Jonestown, it didn't really stop people from drinking
hippocras for very long. Hippocras stayed popular through the
Middle Ages, the Renaissance, all the way up until the 18th century,
and there was a a type of hippocras for really everyone.
You had these multi-spiced wines for the very, very wealthy, and then
really any that had sugar would have been for someone
with with quite a bit of cash, but then you also had
spiced wines for the poor, they were sweetened with honey,
and usually bits of fruit, and that might sound familiar because
we still drink wine that is sweetened with fruit today,
and it's called sangria which actually has its own fascinating history
which i'll have to cover in another episode. But while hippocras lost favor in
the 18th century, other spiced wines emerged and took up the torch
mostly in the winter months served warm. In England mulled wine and wassail punch
made with spiced cider were and still are
must-haves at Christmas parties. Every weihnachtsmarkt in Germany serves
glühwein in either a tankard, or these cute little ceramic boots,
and in nordic countries they have glögg which is still made with some of the
spices that were used in that 14th century
recipe from The Forme of Cury. Honestly almost every European country, and many
former European colonies has some sort of spiced wine as part of
their cuisine, and i'd like to think that most people
aren't drinking it to balance their hippocratic humors,
but because it tastes good. Now speaking of Hippocrates
let's see what we can use in lieu of that hippocratic sleeve.
So after a day or two your hippocras should be ready to strain,
and now if you want to emulate that conical look of the manicum
hippocraticum, you can get either a jelly bag or one of
these. This is meant for making cold brew they
come in all shapes, and sizes. This was big enough
for for two bottles for me, and i'll put a link in the description to where you
can get that but honestly you could probably just use a regular old
coffee filter. Also a lot of the recipes have you using the dregs because again
these spices are very expensive so if you want you can go ahead and use
those dregs to make other things like sauces, or even soap! Hm, 
interesting. So now before I taste this I will mention that this was
served both warm and at room temperature, so i'm going to use that as an excuse
to actually have three glasses. One warmed on the stove,
one at room temperature, and then one that i've chilled like sangria.
So here we are are three glasses of hippocras: one hot,
one room temperature, and one cold. I'm gonna start with the hot one,
even though it's like 95 degrees out because it's July
and let's think christmas in July. Oh my goodness, okay so if if what
ails you is that you have some sinus issues
this will cure what ails you. Oh my gosh i can feel my pupils dilating
wow, okay. Oh that is very Christmassy,
it kind of reminds me of gluhwein from from Germany if you've ever had that,
it's wonderful though, definitely hot. Now let's try the room
temperature one, smells completely different, much less
spice much, much i mean it doesn't clear your nostrils like the other one did
maybe they're already clear, I don't know. Okay if you want something that will
transport you back to the 14th century in a
huge castle, this is it. What an interesting flavor this is.
What's fantastic is there is spice to it, in the back of my
throat and it's just getting more, and more it's I think it's
those grains of paradise, or maybe the long pepper.
There is spice like heat, definite heat to this to this drink, but then it's sweet too because I ended
up using a slightly sweeter red. I don't think it needs sugar, I don't
think it would be good with sugar. I just love it as is. That
is really cool, and just flavors, flavors that i've never tried before.
What i'm not getting is the the spikenard I mean I kind of didn't figure that I would, but
that aromatic fragrance of the spikenard I'm not i'm not getting that
too much, though nothing overwhelms it which is cool.
And now the glass of cold sangria-like hippocras. Again, totally different. The cinnamon pops out in this one, such
different flavors, and it's funny because the hot one really
cleared your nasal passages. The room temperature one had that
scent, but wasn't overwhelming. This one
smells very little, but the flavor is really nice. This one actually reminds
me more of Christmas flavors, the middle one
not at all, the warm one okay, but this one
it feels like all right let's sit down by the fire, and
and open some presents and get drunk on hippocras. Now I have
three glasses to finish, and so i'm going to turn off the camera
before I do that, but I wanted to thank you for sticking
with me and I will see you next time on Tasting History. 