Succeed to obtain items! Now... (Fear) It's time to pull my arm out. Selecting coffee wearing french fries apron Making with coffee which is made in the tiniest cafe in the world Is 'One spoon' this much? It's not VLive Is it OK to put one more? (Busy Eyes)
(Force to answer) (I don't know) Sugar 1 spoon... (Hand with thought) By the way, is it one spoon even though it's piled up? Or... Putting all with 1:1:1 ratio By the way, honestly, shall I put some hot water in? It's just sense. I've never really tasted bad when I trusted my sense. Please remember this talk. I've never really tasted bad when I trusted my sense. What should I do now? Make Dalgona coffee [In earnest] Start to make Dalgona coffee Do I have to put more sugar? The color doesn't change at all! The drink need patience and strength. Person who lost some patience Ah, this... Really... InSomnias, What about doing room cleaning? Stir quickly. Chance to get whisk: Acrostic poems for Dalgona Dalgona... Dalgona. Dalgona Coffee!!! It's tired. I'll buy and drink Dalgona coffee. Anyway, these coffee beans never are melting. Rest beans. Coffee beans are just... If you taste it naturally? I understand why people who make this get emaciated during and after making. (Deep understanding) (Getting emaciated) The first mute contents of Dreamcatcher (Please talk something...) Resisting and stirring again. By the way, I want to do that. These days... There's it too. (Stir quickly) What are you doing? (Self-abashed) It may melt if I do like this... She said it's ASMR but it sounds nothing... Long-awaited Dalgona Plating ASMR came back again But carefully decorating... (Phone ringing) Is it mine? Yeah, it's yours... Done after many twists and turns! What...? Suddenly...? New furniture will come to celebrate cleaning... Tasting Dalgona snack which would be used as decoration We didn't decorate! (Lose will) Let's taste together. (Dalgona snack) Drink one bite. Creating recipe Suddenly embarrassed Fan manager's taste Quickly (Say delicious) Coffee beans... LOL Secret! I've never really tasted bad when I trusted my sense. Came back with second episode, Making Dalgona coffee Forget the other Dalgona coffee! This time is by another coffee... Please this would be successful... Ah, this was successful, too! It's not bad. For the first time. So! Same with the first, 4 sticks of coffee The former one was The one which put hot water later, You can hear this. Boil it, And immediately! put it in. Yes. I put 4 spoons like full bowl rice. Give hot water! (Snack intake in that short time) One... Age to like numbering play Stirring time came back Really... beans doesn't melt... Removing beans Dalgona coffee stirring which makes laughter (Eye contact with fan manger) It's time that you help me... It's my end... (Hard work of fan manager) Hurray! Then now I'll eat some Dalgona! Enjoying a moment OK! (Hard work of fan manager) Hard-working fan manager Beans are... Yeah! I think I need to put more water. But it turns white than before? (Thinking) Shall I put a little like this? Gahyeon didn't see coming future I think I put too much! I think I'm going to become a dalgona. Why does it become black? It means you have to stir it again. What should I do? What should I do... I ruined it... TT Don't screw it up. Urgent PD's touch Rescue Dalgona Coffee (Rescuing Dalgona coffee) (Roughly complete to fix) It really works? If I keep stirring like this, it'll melt someday. Let's see if coffee wins or I win. I guess this is how to make meringue. It becomes like meringue. We can see the end! OK. Last-minute spurt! Finish to make Dalgona coffee! OK. It's good. This! put in this cup This looks like a gourd bottle. Gourd bottle. This is... This is also a gourd bottle! I'll plate in this cup. Shall I plate in the middle? Don't challenge...? Yes, don't do that... Ah, OK. When I said "Don't challenge...?" and three of them, (Nodding firmly) Well, OK! Done with this, Ah, my original goal was Sharing to our all staffs. I didn't know it's hard to make one. (OK...) (Frustrating) Pick the plate and like this... It won't fall off. Doesn't it fall into milk? (Really...?)
Trust me... Oh~ It was almost a bed. Comfort, not shaking Bold gesture Concentrating forehead Second Dalgona coffee Success! And then~ Unfold, unfold. I did it well! Do it more! Gather more! She became greedy. Complete to chocolate decoration What...? Uh..? What are you doing? (Embarrassed) Isn't it a photo? Making thumnail Let's go. Dalgona coffee delivery departure to trustee Sir~ I made it by myself. Wow, really? Really pretty~ Why are you wearing like this~ I can't tie the ribbon... Hey, shall I drink it? Yes! Mix and then drink. Anyway, do I drink it instead of CEO? CEO's? No, it's not. Actually, the CEO was not here, so... Actually... What is the name of this? It's Dalgona coffee. You have to take a picture of this. Ah, really? Force authentication shot She's taking a pretty picture You have to drink it after mix. There's all milk in it. Complete to delivery~ Enjoy it~ Yeah~ now, Two types~ Is it two types? Two cups of Dalgona coffee, I made them! I and our staffs drank one, One was given to our trustee. I want, her to boast a lot... after enjoying it. Because the trustee gave this apron to me, And she always takes care of us. I hope she'll like it. And also our InSomnias. It's dangerous to go outside during keeping social distance period. So, not only this Dalgona coffee, Find the things to do at home, Alone time or with family, friends I hope you do the many things at home. Don't turn around outside, Because it's dangerous. OK? And also we'll do something a lot to show you, InSomnias. Waiting for you~! Then making Dalgona coffee, Success! Dubious success Good bye~ see you later~ 