“I’m scared to close my eyes... I’m scared to open them.” Did The Blair Witch Project
invent YouTube as we know it? “I wanna make movies, Heather. Isn't that what we’re here to do? Let's make some movies.” 20 years ago, the Blair Witch Project
was more than a movie- it was a movement. This story of three student filmmakers
getting lost in the woods- told through what's supposed to be their
own footage discovered after their death “Oh my God! What the f… is that? What the f… is that?!?!” wasn’t the first found-footage
horror film, but it so captured
the global imagination that it started a
found-footage craze in cinema. In the years that followed, countless movies tried
(and mostly failed) to replicate the runaway success
of this low-budget movie which was
(at the time) the most profitable movie ever
in terms of return on investment. Even more than its impact
on cinematic style, Blair Witch became the gold standard for
what amazing film marketing looks like. “The Black Hills search of three
missing filmmakers has been called off. Ten days and thousands of man hours
have been unable to produce any clues to the cause of the
mysterious disappearances.” In 1999, this movie was one of the first
to unlock the mysterious power of the world wide web
to drive meaningful viewership. Cut to 2019- we’re years into a cultural obsession
with viral video and shareable content. And what’s really fascinating is that
today’s online video ecosystem revolves around truths that
Blair Witch demonstrated- like that audiences often care less
about expensive production value than that elusive feeling of authenticity. “He didn't tell me
he was going out to a club. He didn't tell me
he was going out with another girl.” That you need a story around the story
to generate buzz, and that there’s nothing like confusion
and controversy to start a conversation. “I tried to be that person for you, James. I really tried.” So here’s our take
on what Blair Witch taught us and whether, two decades on, it might still be able to illuminate
what audiences really want. “I see why you like
this video camera so much.” “You do?” “It’s not quite reality.” This video is brought to you by NordVPN, the best virtual private network
out there. Right now our viewers
get a very special deal. Click the link in the description below,
nordvpn.com/thetake, to get 75% off a three-year plan. And enter the code, The Take, to get
extra month of NordVPN for free! So what does the found footage craze
have to do with the YouTube generation? In the early 90s, co-directors
Daniel Myrick and Eduardo Sanchez were film students who felt like horror movies
just weren’t scary any more. “There were horror movies,
quote-unquote, and they were kinda fun to
kinda go check out and stuff like that.” “It was scaring us that
they were being made!” “Yeah. But nothing that
really freaked us out like The Exorcist or The Shining…” The two loved pseudo-documentaries- they felt the ‘reality’ of these docs
made them more terrifying than fictional material of the time. So they channeled this connection to
verisimilitude and the documentary format to create a far more genuine scare
than audiences were used to. “Oh Jesus! Oh Jesus!” “Shhh” [Shushes] The raw footage of the actors
in the woods felt “real.” “I don’t know why we have to
have every conversation on video. Tape some ants.” “Cause we’re making a documentary.” “Not about us getting lost.” And in a certain sense,
this is because it was real. Myrick and Sanchez had the actors
actually operate the cameras and improvise their dialogue. “Ok, who wouldn’t let me
have a cigarette in the tent, but he’s allowed to fart
as much as he wants? I really don’t think it’s-”” “I never gave Mike any fart allowance.” The filmmakers hid in
the surrounding woods, orchestrating events
for the actors to react to. Each morning, they guided
the actors via GPS to find hidden film canisters and their instructions
and motivations for that day. “Okay, here's your motivation...
you're lost, you’re angry in the woods and no one's here to help you... there's a fucking witch and she keeps
leaving shit outside your door.” Here were these unknown actors,
going by their real names, “Heather, I really wish
you found a trail.” unfiltered by the usual Hollywood gloss
and thrown into this uncomfortable set-up designed to get honest, spontaneous
reactions out of them. All this added up to the feeling
that real people were responding to a genuinely terrifying situation. “I think it’s safe to say
at this point that we’re lost. I don't know what to do.” Another way Blair Witch
made us feel this was real was by creating a clear division between the movie these young people
are supposedly making “Yet legend tells a different story,
one whose evidence is all around us. Etched in stone.” and the behind-the-scenes footage
they’re filming for fun. “I f… hate scotch.” When Heather's in her movie
she puts on a persona. “This is Burkittsville…
much like a small, quiet town anywhere.” And because the film establishes these
two differentiated versions of her, later when everything descends
into mayhem, we believe her fear because this is clearly
not her fake movie persona. “We’re gonna die out here.” So the central achievement
Blair Witch pulled off was the perception that it was authentic. “Mike? Please don't fall asleep.” After the unbelievable success
of Blair Witch and the later
Paranormal Activity franchise- which broke Blair Witch’s
profitability record- found footage showed up everywhere- not only in horror and monster movies, but also in science fiction
and even comedy. Some of today’s Hollywood directors
proved themselves with a low-budget found footage picture- like Josh Trank with Chronicle,
Neil Blomkamp with District 9, and Matt Reeves with Cloverfield. “Still filming?” “Yeah. People are gonna want to know…
how it all went down.” Found-footage movies are still popular, as evidenced by
Paranormal Activity’s endless sequels, but no longer the fresh, exciting choice
they once were. Today filmmakers might seek
that authentic, stripped-down feel by filming on iPhones. “But you still see
your stalker everywhere?” Tangerine director Sean Baker has said
that nonprofessional performers are more comfortable in front of
an iPhone camera because phones today are so ubiquitous. So just like with Blair Witch, finding ways to get rid of
the Hollywood gloss can focus the film on a situation
and performance that feels real. “You're breaking up with him! Thank God. Because honey, if he’s gonna
be cheating on you like that… “Wait, wait, wait. What?” YouTube in its early days was also a place for new
directorial talent to get noticed- look at David F. Sandberg,
whose viral 2013 short Lights Out led to him directing the feature
Lights Out in 2016 and Shazam! in 2019, Jon Watts, the director
of Spider-Man: Homecoming and Far From Home, was part of the New York
filmmaking collective Waverly Films posting videos to YouTube in 2007. But just like the found footage genre, the ascendancy of YouTube
and the channels that thrive on it prove that a sleek, Hollywood
production style isn’t the only (or even the main)
thing audiences look for- they crave a window into
real people’s lives, warts and all. “Ok so guys,
I think I have a wart on my leg.” “Bruh.” “Do I have a wart like right here?” To this day, the authenticity that
was Blair Witch’s selling point is one of the top qualities that
people consciously seek in their entertainment. Stories based on true events thrive,
while viewers flock to YouTube for content that
feels made by "regular people.” “So for me to come out
about my eating disorder and talk about it, I think it’s helping a lot of people
in different ways.” The second thing Blair Witch proved was
the power of the story about the story. This is still a key aspect
of successful movies- just look at the way
Bradley Cooper and Lady Gaga fed the narrative that they were
artistic soul mates (or even secret lovers) while promoting A Star is Born. “There can be 100 people in the room
and 99 don’t believe in you. And you just need one to believe in you.” The Blair Witch directors’ masterstroke
was the choice to pretend their movie was a true story. Blair Witch’s official website
featured fake police reports and newsreel style interviews. When the film premiered at Sundance, flyers were distributed
asking people to come forward with information
about the missing students. And even IMDb listed the three actors as
“Missing, presumed dead.” “Tell me where you are, Josh!” This was all the more believable
because the actors didn’t make public appearances to promote the film. And a special called
Curse of the Blair Witch was released on the Sci-Fi Channel
before the movie came out. “The only piece of evidence
found by police was Joshua Leonard’s car,
parked on Black Rock Road.” The result of all this is that
some people who saw the movie in 1999 believed that they were watching
actual footage of student filmmakers who had died in the woods. And even if most
didn’t literally believe that, the marketing successfully created
a strong confusion for viewers as to what degree
details were real or not. “The search of the three missing
Montgomery College students continues in Frederick County tonight, as dozens of volunteers
and state officials join local forces in what has now become a full scale
search of the Black Hills area.” This power of confusion is
a really interesting lesson we can draw from the publicity campaign- it didn’t actually matter that
the majority knew deep down that this was a work of fiction… the seed of doubt was planted, so they felt that Blair Witch was somehow
more real than the average horror movie. “Woke up this morning,
just like two seconds ago, and there are piles of rocks
outside of our tent. There are three, actually.” The popularity of Blair Witch’s marketing foreshadowed our current obsession with true crime
and stories based on real events. “This is not just a story. This really happened.” The Blair Witch filmmakers
weren’t the first to understand that audiences are intrinsically
more interested if they think a story really happened. They learned from the example
of the actual first found-footage film, 1980’s Cannibal Holocaust, which was so convincing its director
was actually charged with murder. “Those are the last pictures
we have of them. Two months have passed
since they were last heard from. Are they still alive?” There’s also a precedent for fictional stories passed off as real
going viral. The explosive 1971 book
Go Ask Alice was billed as the “Real Diary” of a teenage girl
descending into drug addiction. But many believe this is actually
a fictional story by editor Beatrice Sparks,
who went on to replicate her success with a number of other
“anonymous diaries.” And we’ve also seen this
fake-true-story effect in action on YouTube. “I tried called my parents 20 times
but no one picks up- I’m really scared.” Starting in 2006, the lonelygirl15 webseries
captivated viewers. “I’ve been chosen
to participate in a ceremony. The ceremony is
a really big deal in my religion.” Eventually, it was “outed”
as a fictional show. Part of the fascination around the show
came out of- like with Blair Witch-
the element of confusion. “Before we were outed
it was very much a mystery and that was what drew people in.” Viewers engaged with the exercise
of analyzing the show to figure out if it was a fraud. “The first video went massive, I mean at the time
I think it got over 100k views which was insane on YouTube.” Lonelygirl15 began only a year
after YouTube’s inception, and it’s hard to imagine viewers
being as easily taken in today. “So this is my first video blog- Um, I’ve been watching for a while and
I really like a lot of you guys on here.” Likewise, Blair Witch’s marketing success had everything to do with
the particular moment when it came out. The team took advantage
of how new internet marketing was, and how viewers were
relatively undiscerning and naïve about what they read online. This explains why so many
who have tried to copy the particulars of the Blair Witch marketing campaign
have failed to gain traction. Audiences aren’t going to be fooled
by the same tricks over and over- savvy promotion efforts
need to do something fresh and tap into something current. According to J.P. Telotte, another often overlooked secret
to Blair Witch’s success is that- within this new territory
of the world wide web- it actually applied a number
of traditional marketing techniques. It had a $20 million marketing budget- which is another reason why just tweeting that your character is
missing presumed dead is not going to get the same reach. So the mythology of Blair Witch was
incredibly calculated and deliberate. “We were trying to kind of make the marketing an extension
of the storytelling.” The compelling narrative
around the film came together with a conventional,
well-budgeted promotional campaign that capitalized on
the late 90s internet moment. Today’s YouTubers came of age
believing in that Blair Witch dream that anyone can make content
on limited means and find an audience. But it’s important to remember that
this movie wasn’t just a fluke that rose up out of nowhere, just as most people uploading videos
on the Internet don’t get millions of views. Even when it looks cheaply made, most of the consistently successful
media online today is backed by well-funded
and implemented strategy. “So you earn different amount of money
based on where your viewer is from. It’s kind of weird, I know, but it’s just based on
what advertisers pay.” So can Blair Witch give us any insight
into why things go viral now? This is one of those
unknowable mysteries- why does some random piece of content
catch on and get shared around the world, while so much else
(that may seem more interesting) is ignored and unviewed,
lost to the ether? A lot has changed in
the media landscape since Blair Witch… The nature of social media today makes it harder than ever to pass
something off as real when it’s not. And if you do manage to trick audiences, that might not be well-received
on an Internet that’s often consumed by outrage culture. “A popular vegan blogger
is being slammed on social media for eating fish at a restaurant… Rawvana apologized to her viewers
in a 33-minute video.” Meanwhile, many online creators
resort to ever more shocking gimmicks in order to generate the surprise or
controversy that virality often requires. Still, there’s something
eternally enthralling and effective about Blair Witch’s strategy
of creating not just a story but a mystery around
the truth and the fiction. In recent years, the craze for
Elena Ferrante’s Neapolitan Novels was fueled by wide-spread curiosity about the anonymous author’s
real identity. “The fact was that Elena Ferrante
was a major public figure, arguably the most famous Italian
in the world, therefore, there was a legitimate desire by her readers and by others
to know more about her.” Most fundamentally, researchers say that
the secret to virality is creating a strong emotional response (positive or negative.) “I'm gay-
it feels so good to say that.” When something takes root
in us emotionally, posting an article or video
on social media or sharing it with a friend is a cathartic release that helps
us process what it made us feel. So essentially, creators need to find
a way to move us and let us do the rest of the work
for them. “Will you marry me?” “Going viral” is -as the name implies-
to catch and spread, like a disease. And as the New York Times put it, “Online, as in real life,
feelings can be caught like the flu.” Through its combination of
fresh-feeling elements, Blair Witch made people
feel visceral fear- and evidently-
they needed to share that- to tell others about it-
so they could deal with their response. 20 years later, it still holds true that
the way to reach people is to infect them with a potent,
contagious emotional response they just can’t shake. “It’s totally like
a filtered reality, man. It’s like you can pretend
everything’s not quite the way it is.” 