Everything hurts and I'm dying! Let's go!!! Last time, the Fool's Gold team tried to bring back Sneeze. *squeak* *squeak squeak squeak* *squeak*  Okay i think thats enough gothi just stop It didn't go great, cuz turns out his soul was in the Dragon Dark Spooky Crystal that sucks up souls in a 50-mile radius to power its death cannon. So yeah. That's a thing. Now, Sips and Gothi travel through a portal (at Erina's expense) into what we assume is a pocket plane of Spooky Souls, and: Sips: 'Yep, pocket plane full of Spooky Souls.' Gothi: 'Well, this place is...' Gothi: 'Well, this place is...'
Spooky Soul: 'Everything suuuuuuuckssss......' Gothi: 'Well, this place is...'
Spooky Soul: 'Everything suuuuuuuckssss......'
Gothi: '...Terrible.' Sips: 'Let's just hurry up.'
Dingo: And then we see some souls we recognize: Group of goblins, giant spiders, and a bunch of sheep. Not gonna explain the sheep. They got what they deserved. Oh, and you guys might be wondering if Quinn-Ora and the Tarrasque are here as well. Well, first of all, the Tarrasque was choked out, not killed. That thing is literally unkillable, I don't know what else to tell you. As for Quinn-Ora, she technically died in a one-way portal to the fire plane, so her soul's is on that side, not this side. Thank God. Anyway, we managed to sneak without getting noticed by the spirits, travelling along in the soul scape until we finally spot: Sips: 'Sneeze!' Sips runs over to Sneeze who doesn't even really acknowledge him, Sips runs over to Sneeze who doesn't even really acknowledge him, kind of like he's ignoring him. Sips: *sighs* Sips: 'Yeah, all right I get it. I messed up!' Sips: '...bad.' Sips: 'But I mess up a lot if you haven't noticed!' Sips: 'And for once I thought I could handle something on my own,' Sips: 'but in the end I still needed help,' Sips: '...like I always do.' Sips: 'And because of that, I got you killed.' Sips: 'I don't know why I'm surprised.' Sips: 'I bet you're not.' Sips: *sighs* 'I get it if you don't want to come back.' Sips: 'I just...' Sips: 'I just... could...' Sips: '...could you at least just look at me?!' Sips: '...could you at least just look at me?!'
Gothi: 'Uhhh, Sips, I don't think he can hear you.' that whole thing did not matter Gothi: 'Actually, I don't think he can see us either. We seem to be invisible to the spirits in here.' Sips: 'Oh.' Gothi: 'Did you... wanna talk?' Gothi: 'Did you... wanna talk?'
Sips: 'NNNNNNope.' Gothi: 'Did you... wanna talk?'
Sips: 'NNNNNNope.'
Gothi: 'Oh kay!' Sips: *sighs* 'Alright, well... what if I -- ' Sips touches Sneeze, and instantly a feeling of connection comes and snaps Sneeze out of that dead funk. And he turns to see... Sips. Sips: 'Hey kid, let's go home.' Then they hug, and it's adorable, and shut up! I'm not crying, you're crying! But this moment is cut short as we hear, Gothi: 'Uhhh, Sips, you know how Sneeze can see us now?' Gothi: 'Well, I think all the spirits are able to see us now.' Fun fact! About this place! Making contact with a spirit kind of causes you to pop into *their* playing field, now. Before you were an observer, now you're in it! So we slowly back up, and then into a thing. Now you guys remember that thing Mr. Wizardly mentioned at the end of episode six? Erina: 'Fu - *quack*' A big, scaley, deadly... Gothi: 'Dragon.' Gothi: 'Dragon.'
Dingo: Yeah, that thing! That's the thing. Sips: 'Heeeeeeeeey, Gresh, you're still not mad about the whole,' Sips: '"murdering you by blasting a big hole in your guts,"' Sips: '...are you?' Gresh: *huffs* Gothi: 'I think it looks...' Gothi: 'I think it looks... Becoming.' Gothi: 'I think it looks... Becoming.'
Sips: 'Yeesh.' Now you may be wondering, why and mostly how the hell did we manage to kill a dragon? Well, in order to talk about that I need to talk about Gothi. Ooo, let's get into some backstory!!! Gothi used to look like this, not this. Old Gothi, new Gothi. Old Gothi, new Gothi.
Short Gothi, tall Gothi. Old Gothi, new Gothi.
Short Gothi, tall Gothi.
Got it? Cool. Her story is she's an old swamp hag who woke up in the swamps with no memory who was found by Jawbone. Later, she became a druid, creating potions, ... very questionable potions... *VWORMP* *splat* Old!Gothi: 'Hmm. Needs more nutmeg.' She was kind of batsh-*quack* crazy, I don't know how else to sum it up. Really, you all know Gothi as this competent leader who manages to keep these idiots focused and not dying, but back then she was just... crazy. She had a real passion for potatoes, Old!Gothi: 'Eat your PoTASSIUM!' Old!Gothi: 'Eat your PoTASSIUM!'
*whack* and she had like, 28 ducks. and she had like, 28 ducks.
*quack* Old!Gothi: 'Heh. I stole dem.' It was hard for the group to *really* trust her, Sips especially. In time, though, the group warmed up to her, and Sips even grew an actual friendship with her. She was the only one who helped Sneeze when he needed it, so they became fast friends after that. But how did she get from, Old!Gothi: *grunting, struggling* Old!Gothi: *grunting, struggling*
Sips: 'No!' to, Sips: *grunting, struggling* Sips: *grunting, struggling*
New!Gothi: 'No.' Let me explain. Near the beginning of the campaign (so before all that Tarrasque business), the group had traveled in the jungles to a small village called Bundariko. This is where we met Jack, who gave us the offer of, Jack: '...travelling to five ancient Foreclaimer ruins and grabbing me these five big crystals.' Jack: 'Like, big enough to crush your Grandma with.' Gorthan: 'I *do* like crushing...'
Sips, Erina: 'Eeeehhhhhhhh...'
Old!Gothi: 'Eeeehhhhhhhh...' Gorthan: 'I *do* like crushing...'
Sips, Erina: 'Eeeehhhhhhhh...'
Old!Gothi: 'Eeeehhhhhhhh... Potato.' Jack: 'You can keep all the treasure you find, 'xcept the crystals.' Sips: 'Deal.' Dingo: And that day we became true adventurers. Or professional thieves, whatever floats your boat. So Bundariko quickly became our home base with Jack. So one day a murderous... So one day a murderous... marilith tax collector of Gresh So one day a murderous... marilith tax collector of Gresh (the Dragon) with a lot of arms a lot attitude comes into OUR TOWN, and threatens our beloved bartender, Stout and threatens our beloved bartender, Stout, who is also the Mayor, (he's just a giant pun, and we love him) She demands that: Asshole Marilith: 'If Bundariko doesn't pay Gresh,' Asshole Marilith: 'Gresh herself will come down and burn the whole village to the ground.' You see, Gresh is the Big Bad Green Dragon of this region and has been demanding taxes from all the villages in exchange for her not burning everything down to the ground. A very thoughtful dragon. So naturally our group stepped in and said: Sips: 'Pffbt, fine, then we'll just kill the dragon, then.' Asshole Marilith: 'And how are you planning to do that?' *low rumbling* *CRASH* Jack: *exaggerated gasp* Jack: 'And *when* were you gonna tell me you have a giant ancient Foreclaimer mechanical dragon?!' Sips: 'Ha ha! Never.' So with ridiculous amounts of prep, and praying to the D&D gods, We manage to face off with Gresh, mono e mono, Dragon v.... Dragon v.... uhh Dragon v.... uhh... Mech Dragon One of the most epic battles ever perceived in D&D history, *breath* And I am NOT gonna animate it, cause I am ONE woman, and get off my back! So we fight, *lazer noise* *more lazer noises*
*screaming* And it's epic. And with our last bit of power, we blast a: Erina: 'Super Mega Awesome DeaTH FIRE --' Erina: 'Super Mega Awesome DeaTH FIRE --'
Sips: 'PUSH THE DAMN BUTTON!' Old!Gothi: 'Fettuccine!' Old!Gothi: 'Fettuccine!'
Erina: 'Hey!' Blast RIGHT into Gresh's guts, making a giant beam-sized hole, And with that final blow, Gresh falls. We go down to check to make sure that, yep, she's super dead. Jack joins us -- Sips: 'Ah-! Jesus, don't *do* that again!' So we all laugh and chat of our victory, Jack congratulates us on killing a goddamn dragon. It's one of those nice moments in D&D. Until... Jack casually comes up to Gothi, and goes in for a hug, then in one swift motion, stabs Gothi, right in her guts. She lets out a cry and lurches forward in pain. Time slows down as the group slowly realizes what just happened, as Gothi collapses right in front of us. Jack: 'I see now... I get it!' Jack: 'I see now... I get it!'
Sips: *monkey screech* Sips: 'You piece of-- I'll kill you! What did you do?!' Erina: 'Wait, look!' Erina: 'Wait, look!'
Sips: 'HMM?!' And then with our own eyes, we see Gothi transform, growing to a 6'5" Amazonian-built woman, growing to a 6'5" Amazonian-built woman, and glowing lines all over her body. This, this is Gothi. A Foreclaimer. So a while back, when we first met Jack, Gothi had no memory of her past and gave Jack her locket. That was the only thing she had on her when she woke up in the swamps. And through research, Jack discovered that it was Foreclaimer tech. Jack didn't stab her with a knife. Jack stabbed her with a crystal -- a power crystal. Yeah, you guys remember last episode I talked about how the Foreclaimers powered *everything* with crystals? Like, everything? Yeah, turns out they figured out how to power themselves up with these three-inch crystals, called power crystals, that extend their lifespan by several hundred years. Turns out Gothi was not an old swamp hag. She was a Foreclaimer without a power source. No, she is not a robot. She's just an elf that's race took science way too far. So not only did this make Gothi's body get back into peak performance, Gothi: 'Check out these guns.' but it also brought her *mind* back into peak performance. Gothi: 'Hmm. Yep.' Gothi: 'Yep, the 28 ducks was definitely a mistake.' *QUACK* Jack: 'Don't y'all see? She's a descendant of the Foreclaimers, isn't she beautiful?' Jack: Don't y'all see? She's a descendant of the Foreclaimers, isn't she beautiful?'
Sips: 'HUP-!' Gothi: 'Hey, Sips?'
SIps: 'Huh?' Gothi: 'Did...' Gothi: 'Did... did I turn a goblin into goo?' Sips: 'Heh heh!' Sips: 'Heh heh! Yeah.' So there you have it. Now you know how Gothi became... Gothi. However, it did take her some time to get-- However, it did take her some time to get--
*thunk!*
Gothi: 'Ow.' -- used -- -- used--
*thunk!*
Gothi: 'Ow.' --to -- -- to --
*rustle*
Gothi: 'Ow.' the height. But in time she became the real competent leader of the group. And I know some of you wanna know what's behind Gothi's mask, but patience! PATIENCE! 'Cause right now, we still have the issue of Sips, Sneeze, and Gothi... ...staring down a very pissed-off Ghost Dragon in the Spooky Soul Plane. Sips: 'Okay.' Sips: 'No, no problem. I'll simply turn us invisible so we can sneak away.' I cast a spell. I cast a spell... nothing. Apparently, magic doesn't work in here either! Another! Fun! Fact! Sips: 'HMMMMMMMMM!' Gothi: 'We should run right?'
Sips: 'Oh, yeah.' So yeah, we book it. In fear and panic, we run towards a now closing portal. Sips: 'Oh, good! Yes, need that extra tension, huh?!' And as we make our way there, something happens. Suddenly, souls just start... popping in, a lot of them. Civilians, women, children, soldiers. People are dying. Then as we pass by, we see a symbol on the soldiers' armor. Our group knows this symbol. We know these people. They're from a city, a city that we have saved, a city that we have history with. The city... of Rascam. This video is sponsored by The De--
Dingo: Up bup, bup, bup! Wait wait wait, Just, just a second! Ah, before we get into that ~tasty sponsor biz~ Felix has made a Foreclaimer race stat sheet for you guys. So now you can make your own crystal techno elf and implement them into your adventures. Link in the description down below So don't message me about it. Yeah. 