(adventurous music) - (gasps) I'm Coyote Peterson and living underneath this crate is one of the most vicious
creatures in the animal kingdom, and I'm gonna let it out. Are you ready? One, two. (grunts) There you are, come over here. The wilds of Alaska are home
to one of the most ferocious mammals on the planet, a
fearless predator armed with the bone-crushing bite
force, lightning speed, and the ability to take
down prey several times its own size. I know what you were thinking,
it must be a grizzly bear or maybe a wolverine. But what if I told you the
maximum size of this animal is only 15 inches long making
it one of the smallest members of its family, the mustelas. Today we are in Haines,
Alaska at Steve Kroschel's wildlife sanctuary where
we will be getting up close with one of these little
mammals who's been raised in captivity. This stealthy hunter is related
to badgers, pine martens, mink, and even wolverines. Have you guessed who
we are talking about? If not, get ready to meet
the short-tailed weasel. Very slowly. - [Cameraman] Where is it? - Hold on, I'm gonna
lift off this rock. I gotta keep it in
there with a rock, that's how strong they are. - [Cameraman] Are you
nervous doing that? - [Coyote] Yeah, he's gonna
lunge out of the straw and maul me. - [Camerman] Oh, I see it. It's right over there in the
corner by the white thing. - [Coyote] Let me see. - [Cameraman] He's
looking right there. - There you are, come over here. (chirps) Oh, did you hear that chirp? Okay, let me get it out, and
maybe if we just sit back for a second. One thing you don't do
is try to force a member of the weasel family to do
something that it doesn't want to do. Wait a minute, I hear
some rustling in there. Here we go, here we go. It's about to spring out. There it is. Oh, look at that. It's a weasel. Now don't let this
cuteness fool you. This is one voracious predator. I'm trying to stay
still right now. I don't want to just
twitch my fingers around because if I do, it may
think that that's something to latch onto. This little tiny animal
that's jumping around in here has a bite strength that is
150 pounds per square inch. To give you some perspective,
a human's bite force is only 85 pounds, and I think
it's underneath me right now. Okay, you getting a little
more comfortable with me? It's behind me, I'm
a little nervous, tiny little sharp teeth. And you'll notice that the
tip of the tail is dark in coloration, almost black. And the tip of the tail will
stay that color all year long even when the coat is white. You're so cute you would
fit perfectly in my pocket. You know where that
weasel would go best? Right, ooh, he's
scratching my back. In an instance like this,
it is all about just letting the animal acclimate to me. I don't want to try
to force an encounter. If I were to grab
that weasel right now it would rear around and
bite me with those sharp little needle-like teeth. It's right behind you, Mark. Don't move, don't move. Just let it come back this way. I'm keeping my hand
low to the ground. It's underneath you. It's totally cool,
don't worry about it. Oh, there, right there,
right there, okay. This little creature is like
the hummingbird of mammals. Its heart is going at
800 beats a minute, at a resting pace,
300 beats a minute. That is crazy. So this little thing
is running around, it's heart's going
bababababababa. Imagine that, 800 beats
in a single minute. Now in the wild these weasels
are incredible predators and what they will do is
they will find the burrow of a mouse or a vole. It will go in there. It will find whether it's
an adult or it's babies and it will just eat everything
that it comes across, then it will take
over the burrow and turn that into their home. I'm gonna be honest with
you, I don't think there's any chance of me actually
holding onto this weasel and keeping it still
for the cameras. I do want to get you guys
some really cute shots of this animal. It's absolutely adorable,
so I brought with me a GoPro on a
gimbal, and I think, if I follow the weasel around, I can get you guys
some great shots. Are you ready? (imitates chirping) I'm trying to follow
the weasel close. I just want it to come
up on these rocks here. It's almost like I can't
move the camera fast enough to get it in frame. - [Mark] It's up under your leg. There it is, it's coming
out, it's on your shoe. - [Coyote] I'm
loosening up, oh boy. Where is that weasel going? You never know which hole
it's going to pop out of. Oh, there we go. (imitates chirping) Oh, it's up on the
grate, there it goes. That's so fast it's
like a little ninja. Awesome. (imitates chirping) Oh, nice. - [Mark] Did you get it? - Oh, yeah, it's
probably the best shot that I'm gonna get today. Oh, it is sweltering in here. But how fun was that,
spending the afternoon playing pop goes the
weasel with a weasel. I'm Coyote Peterson. Be brave, stay wild. We'll see you on
the next adventure. Oh, there he goes. Okay, one more shot. If you thought this
encounter with a member of the weasel family was
exciting, go back and watch the time I climbed up
into a tree to hang out with a pine marten. And don't forget, subscribe
so you can join me and the crew on our
next big adventure. (howling)
(chirping) 