What?! What are you doing?! This is J2N~ Our tension is great today haha G.F.R.I.E.N.D ! Today is Monday, July 13th. Today is the first day of SEVENTEEN's "Left & Right" practice! Just in time, GFRIEND is making a comeback! We're going to watch the MV of our new song "Apple".Haha Today's reaction is going to be very energetic, so please enjoy it today! Oh, that's a gentle start. It's dreamlike. Red, Red! / Oh, look at the color. I was going to say that!LOL The color is so pretty. Oh. she picked it up! be like a movie / Does she bite it?! Who is it? Who is it? Is it Eunha?! It's so pretty. I thought you were Snow White. Your beauty is crazy! / Too white OH Surprised! Oh, what is this? The skirt is awesome Costumes are so pretty What's with your face expression?! / Oh, Umji's the first verse It's so pretty! Wow, SinB is a total Snow White! Wow, Yerin is so elegant. Why is it so luxurious? I know! They're like goddesses. Oh, it's so pretty. I love the set. / It's like a European garden. Wow, you're so pretty. What is it?! Rred hair looks so good on you. Something's changed. The music! You look like a Disney princess, Isn't she a sleeping princess? They made the music video really well. The color is so pretty. Wow, the choreography here is so pretty. Sowon is so pretty The outfit and the elegant choreography go so well together. Her hair color is the same as apple High notes are amazing! The mood is amazing./ It's so pretty. Sowon's really determined this time! SO DOPE!! That's awesome, Yuju! Yerin, you're so pretty It's so pretty! What should I do?!ᅲ You're crazy, Umji. Your singing style is a bit unique! It's different from the old styles. Umji is so pretty. Oh, what is it?! It turned dark! Wow, isn't Yerin's hair all-back crazy?! It's totally shocking! Oh my gosh! Yuju is so cool! What do I do?! Oh, They got a haircut. I feel like they're completely corrupted. It's totally the opposite from the beginning The melody is so unique! It's totally different from the previous styles! Wow, the backlight scene is crazy. The atmosphere, / It's totally moody. Your skirt is a bit see-through, too! To make better use of the backlight! That's a great scale! The song is good too?!ᅮᅮᅮ WooooW Visual crazy with amazing makeup Umji's styling is crazy. She tied her hair up. What's with the wood burning?! So chiillll This scene is really shocking, dancing alone in front of a burning tree So goosebumped Your make-up style is totally different. Oh, my God! some roots appeared. That's awesome. / That's really shocking. In an interview like a comeback announcement, they said they wanted to make a lot of changes in this comeback! The members said they paid a lot of attention to this part, but it was a huge success!! It's a radical change / DOPE It's so thrilling when you change from white to black in the middle!! When the chorus part of the second verse goes over With amazing visuals,, Let's talk about something impressive. The opening was so dramatic when it started Starting with too vivid colors and apples and trees, When Eunha suddenly falls down after eating an apple and laughing slightly! I was so surprised!! Acting and all that stuff. If previous GFRIEND was focused on neatness like group dancing rather than fancy This time, it's totally fancy!I was impressed. GFRIEND's music and choreography had the charm of "cleanness" from basic I think the style was a little different this time. The most memorable thing is that the visuals are optimized for all the members! The blonde Eunha, Yerin, and SinB with red hair are so pretty. And whenever Umji and my wish come out, they're so pretty. Why are you so pretty? I was surprised when Yuju opened her eyes at the beginning of the second verse. I liked it because it was more than just pretty. That's right! The music also feels like it has an atmosphere! It's like the atmosphere that makes the listeners immerse themselves in!LOL I really like GFRIEND's dance. But this time, I think the dance style has changed. It was very impressive. And the place (set) of the music video fits the mood of the music video so well. Elegant, elegant, luxurious and colorful,!
It's the best! It's the best with money & rich capital! How did they shoot that wood burning scene?! Is it really burning? Wouldn't they really burn it, would they? Won't a NG cause a big trouble?!We're gonna have to cut the trees before they burn up Or change to another tree, huh?LOL Then all the staff have to turn around.LOL The most impressive scene was when SinB danced alone in front of a burning tree. I was impressed with the haircut. Umji's hairstyle in verse 3 was shocking, but it was impressive because it looked so good on her. What I felt since the teaser was that Sowon was so talented in the teaser and music video. I liked the change because it was so impressive. The music is so good. GFRIEND has a strong high-pitched voice. I think the reason why the great songs are coming out well is because of their solid vocal base. It's the best!! Originally, people say that girls love beautiful women much more! haha I've taken a reaction video with high-tensioned friends If you enjoyed today's video, please press like and subscribe! See you in the next video! Bye~~ 