Welcome back to another, very special episode of Ethan and Hila Hila's been scheming on a new project This time, called The Black Project Anyway, I'm just thirsty so I'm gonna have a lil sip here... Hila: Oh Ethan: ...of my fucking dirt water Ethan: It does not taste- it still doesn't taste good!
Hila: [disgust] Hila: It's black...
Ethan: In the words of Rain Florence: "Looks just like my enema water"
Hila: [laughs] Ethan: mmm Hila: so first we have this black...face...mask? Ethan: It's one of those products that it's like, look, just put this on your face, you're gonna be f-- everything wrong in your life is gonna be fine Hila: yeah
Ethan: once you put this black schmutz on your face I seriously need all the help I can get So I'm going big Hila: I'm getting it all over my black cape and beanie! Ethan: Well, it's black!
Hila: [laughs] Ethan: It shouldn't matter
Hila: I guess so Ethan: What do you do if you have, like, a beard? Hila: I don't know, your problem Hila: It's pretty sexy Hila: [laughs]
Ethan: Straight Looney Tuning it 1950s Looney Tunes This isn't black face guys! I don't care what you say this is an actual fucking product to clean your skin, you fucking-- you guys are bigots and racists for putting these racist remarks in your heads This is a actual product from China Used to cleanse your skin and that's the purpose we're using it If you guys wanna make this a racially charged issue, that's between you and yourself, ok? Hila: who said anything about a racial...?
Ethan: I know what they're thinking! I know what you're thinking when you look at me, I can see it in your eyes Hila don't act like... Hila: Not in our channel We don't do that kinda bullshit Ethan: [giggles] Hila: Ok, now what we're gonna do We're gonna brush our teeth... Ethan: [sigh] This one's pretty weird Hila: ...with charcoal Ethan: So, people actually use this Right? Instead of FUCKING TOOTHPASTE People put sh-- charcoal powder and brush their teeth with it!! Hila: And I got us even black toothbrushes [clinks toothbrushes] Ethan: So what, do I just dip it in?
Hila: You, you dip this in the water Hila: and then you just take some on your toothbrush Ethan: ok Hila: And then you just brush, apparently Ethan: Seriously?! Hila: yeah Ethan: And that works? Hila: Well let's see Ethan: Ugh, do you have a spit bucket? Hila: Ew! It, it feels like there's sand in my mouth
Ethan: [laughs] Ethan: It looks like it!! Get a close up of that! Hila: Oh, by the way, don't swallow it Ethan: Oh thanks. They're like, "Oh and by the way, if you swallow this, you die" [vigorous brushing] Ethan: I'm going for it I'm going for it [SCREAMING] [RETCHING] WHAT THE FUCK?! Hila: How does it look? Ethan: [muffled] Gross! It looks fuckin gross Hila: I feel like I...just want to die Hila: [laughing] Oh my god! You look scary! Ethan: [wretches] [spits] Ethan: Gross! Hila why'd you buy this shit? [retching] [Hila laughing] I think I swallowed some Hila Hila: Oh no!!
Ethan: Do we need to call Poison Control? [coughing, retching] So guys I cannot endorse this product enough Charcoal spearmint flavor naturally activated powder Stop using toothpaste guys It's not good It's not all natural And it's definitely not made of charcoal And it's definitely not made of something that if you swallow it, it has the potential to kill you Hila: I can't get it out! Ethan: What do I do if my mouth's not clean? Do I put more of this in? Hila: Oh my god Hila: EW!! [laughter] Don't do th-- ah!! Oh, God [laughter] Remember not to swallow! Ethan: ahg Hila: oh, gross Ethan: Guh!! [laughter] Ethan: Euuh! Hila what is this?! Hila: I don't know! Ethan: [muffled] Remember guys, remember to use charcoal all naturally activated toothpaste Keep your mouth and gums healthy and glowing It's the all natural way Don't use toothpaste that shit is for suckers and people who don't-- don't know how to be healthy and organic [retching loudly] Hila: You feeling okay? Ethan: What are we doing? Hila: Are you ready for the next black product? Black? Hila: What's your name? I think maybe I ate a little bit too much of all naturally activated charcoal spearmint tooth powder organically made for clean healthy gums Wait, eugh my mouth feels dirty, should I eat some more? Hila: NOO!! Ok, I got something specially for you, Ethan What does that mean? Hila: I got black hair dye... Ethan: Ohhhhh Hila: ...for men! Ethan: Shit! Are you trying to say something, Hila, about my hair? no Ethan: Are you trying to say that my hair's grey and you don't like it? You wanna dye my hair black? You want me to be one of these fuckin guys who walks around in his like, 40s, 50s and looks like he's obviously dyed his hair, it's like a fuckin joke dude Hila: I didn't say anything Ethan: He looks like he had a god damn printing accident Hila: What, you don't want to look like this guy? Ethan: I do-- actually, he's quite handsome and his hair is very nice "Just for men" by the way By the way, guys, in case you were wondering JUST for men excuse me I'm getting all-- I'm getting too excited Hila: gotta refresh Ethan: mmm It's so fresh I love black water premium alkum water cause it's so fresh and natural Hila: Do you feel like it's hard to move your...face?
Ethan: mmhmm...mmhmm Hila: It's a pretty funny feeling Ethan: I love blk period premium alkum because it's pure, fresh and it has a 70+ alkaline trace mineral level pick up your own bottle of blk at your nearest scam store for 8 dollars per bottle It's gonna save your life guys mmm I can feel the cancer being flushed out of my body as I drink Cheers, to your health everybody So my mom, Donna, is a hair stylist And she knows what she's doin' with the-- with the dye so we're gonna have her swoop in
Hila: mhm Hila: I have no idea how to do that Ethan: You're gonna end up getting it in my eyes I'm gonna go blind or something Ok, so let's summon the mom
Hila: yeah MOM!! MOM!! MOM? MOOOM! MOOOM! MOM!! Ethan's Mom: Yeah baby? Ethan: Hey Ethan's Mom: Oh my god
Hila: [laughter] Ethan: Are you ready? Ethan's Mom: I thought you were gonna dye your hair, not your face! Hila: [laughter]
Ethan: Well that's part of it, it's the black project So we're doin-- it's a whole... experience Ethan's Mom: Why are you dying your face black? Ethan: It's uh, it's uh, it's a treatment from China and apparently it removes, um, all of your facial impurities Ethan's Mom: So it's not gonna, like, stain your face or anything
Ethan: No, it's permanent. It's permanent. [laughs] Ethan: It's permanent. It remo-- it cures all your facial impurities by turning your skin black and then you can't see it anymore Do you wanna try it, by the way? There's enough
Hila: [laughter] Ethan's Mom: No.
Ethan: Do you want it? Ethan's Mom: No.
Ethan: Cause we can put this on you while you dye my hair Ethan's Mom: No. If this works out, I'll recommend it to all my clients. Ethan's Mom: So why are you doing this? Ethan: It's black! It's the Black Project! Ethan's Mom: Okaayy. Ethan: It's just for men, by the way, guys Any women out there, considering using this product, It's JUST FOR MEN No girls allowed! That's my favorite club Oh god.
Ethan's Mom: Where did you get this? Hila: from amazon
Ethan: China Trump: China! Ethan: With all the other products [laughs] Donna: I can't believe you're doing this Ethan: Black! Black is the new black Hila: [laughs]
Ethan: Black has always been black Ethan's Dad: Woah [Hila laughs] Ethan's Mom: So how do we look? You've seen me look better, right? Look at Dad's face Ethan's Dad: Black face. Perfectly politically correct and acceptable Ethan: It's not racist! It's facial-- it's face care! Why does everyone think instantly that it's racist? Ethan's Mom: Well you know what, you know what, Lush has a black soap. Ethan: Lush has black soap! Why does everyone have to say instantly, oh you're in black face, racist Ethan's Mom: If that's gonna peel off, what's gonna happen to your beard? Is your beard-- Ethan: It's permanent. It's not-- it doesn't peel off. It sinks in. It's ink. It's black ink. I told you. It doesn't come out. Ever. Ethan's Mom: What?! Ethan: So this is black food coloring. Ethan's Mom: Who sent you this stuff?
Ethan: And I heard... that if you put black food coloring in your mouth, that it has an interesting flavor. Ethan's Mom: Ohhh no!! Don't do that! Ethan: So, let's see, how does it go So cheers everybody Ethan's Mom: Wait, wait
Ethan: To your health Ethan's Mom: Wait, wait Ethan! Ethan! What the hell is he doing?
Hila: Oh my god [Ethan laughs] [laughter] Hila: Oh my god
Ethan: Hey guys! Ethan: Hey everybody!
Hila: It's like a black... Ethan: I hope you've enjoyed our episode of Black. Ethan's Mom: Oh God! Spit that out! [laughing and yelling] Ethan: WHAT THE FUCK?! Ethan: [retching, coughing, spitting]
[laughter] Ethan's Mom: Oh my God
Ethan: [yelling] Ethan: WHAT THE FUCK
Hila: Oh my God Ethan's Dad: What did you think would happen? Ethan's Mom: I'm afraid my eyebrows--
Ethan: It's not racist, Mom! Why do people kept talk-- saying that it's racist? It's just black face care!! Ethan's Dad: She just said she was raw
[all talking over each other] Ethan: Please! Ethan's Mom: What did he say?
Hila: [laughter] Ethan's Mom: I-- Oh my God! I look disfigured! Ethan: So before we wash off our faces, and I wash out my hair and see the true beauty of black Hila: I am terrified So thank you, crunchyroll, I'm gonna go wash this shit off my face now Hila: Ok I can't wait to take this off Ethan: You look like Batman. Gimme a look at you. You're Batman! Dude you look sick, right now Hila! [laughs] You're the Phantom of the Opera dude! Oh it's gettin some sch- oh wait that's not schmutz, that's just straight up dead skin Oh my God! Hila: [laughs] It's...terrible! Ethan: Do not use this product!
Hila: yeah OOHHHHH OOOHHHHHH!!!!! EUH Hila: [laughter] oh my god! Ethan: OOHHHHHHH I feel like this is a shot from like a Hellraiser film when they're like, peeling off your skin in hell Ethan: you're like...OOHHHHH
Hila: This is scary Ethan's Mom: This is like, so gross Gross! Ethan: It's not even funny anymore, it's just suffering Hila: yeah Ethan's Mom: Look at your mouth! Ethan: The, th-- the, the comedy is gone this is just real suffering Hila: Are you ok? Ethan: I don't know! Hila: You wanna wash your mouth or something? Ethan: I'm tryin to keep my eye closed but it's like, pooling at my eyelid Hila: Wow, your hair is really black! Ethan: [giggles] Ethan's Mom: Ethan, you're gonna look like a--
[laughter] So, why-- why did you dye your hair black? Ethan: It's the Black Challenge!
Hila: That's the episode! Hila: Oh my God it's so black! Ethan: Well we left it in for like an hour, it said 10 minutes! Ethan: I wanna see it
Hila: Your hair is so black [laughs] That is a natural hair color! [laughter] Hila: What do you think? Ethan: I love these guys who walk around like, this is my natural hair color guys This is just who I am And my scalp is black! MY SCALP IS BLACK [laughter] WHAT THE FUCK Well guys, take a look and judge for yourself Did these beauty products work? You decide The Black Episode, brought to you by Ethan and Hila More black and vibrant and beautiful than ever 