Hello~ Solarsido! This is Solar! Today, is part 2 of my 2 million [subscriber] event! In part 1 I did 'Solar's Online Concert'. I took votes for a new song~ Various things, we sang and talked together. And talked about this and that. In part 2, there's another event I prepared. To talk about this, it's almost like... Been prepared for about 2 months. There isn't anything huge, but... I think it took quite some time. One of the first events It was broadcast a few weeks ago.
(tvN On&Off). Decorating Polaroids. I decorated Polaroids like this. (I'll show you them a bit) There are really a lot. 200 of them, I worked hard in my spare time sitting here And decorated them all. Watch!! 
Right now, I'm decorating Polaroids. I'm decorating Polaroids right now.. But, since there are 200 of them They can't be done overnight. And, Polaroids, I thought would be a good way to show my various appearances. So, while I had schedules, in my spare time I shot a lot of Polaroids little by little.
(On&Off broadcast). There are some ruined photos also. Like where the flash made it dark. Of the ruined ones, by my big Yong unnie, Some were decorated. They're ruined! But, seeing these now, it seems like my sister decorated them better..  Do you want the ones that Big Yong unnie decorated, too? To be honest, I'm not that good at decorating Polaroids.. I'm not that good.. I'm not sure if Yongwangnims will like it either. So... In the beginning, I tried really hard. (Passionate Solar in full effect)
Sticking on stickers~ And I made a fuss, right? But, it turns out what I don't mess with a lot are prettiest! So, I've slowly started messing with them less. It's not because I got annoyed. Really, just in case people misunderstand when they get it. I'm telling you beforehand. (Don't misunderstand) The more I decorate it, the more they became ruined.. (Sudden English studying?) It seemed like it was becoming more ruined as I decorated it So I did it less! Slowly. You know like, only writing something. I'm thinking about doing it as simple as possible.
[Simple is the BEST!!] At least with what's left! The ones that I already put stickers on and made a mess with.. I can't do anything about it. (Hit or miss against one's will kekeke) But please, don't remove themㅠ_ㅠ What my sister did, what I did. As expected.. I told you I can't decorate things. These ones where I just signed it may be best. (Still not giving up)
I should draw some horns. Goblin goblin, Yong goblin~ (Sign confidently) (Attempting to draw YES) (Scent of poop hand..)
(t/n: 'poop hand' just means like, 'clumsy hands') [Hesitate..] [Dang it..] (Ah, whatever, let's color it!) (Coloring meticulously) [Somewhat satisfied] Yes! (Solar in a suitcase) (Solar in a suitcase) There's a photo that I want, too, to be honest. But, I gave it up.. For our Yongwangnims! The name of this Polaroid. Yong field. (Yong)(Yong)(Yong)(Yong) Ones that haven't been decorated! (I'll show them to you a bit^'^) [There's still this much that I have to do;.;]  I came to decorate Polaroids again today. [Omitting detailed explanations...] (Focus) (Working hard) [I'm going to try decorating this one~] (Rustle..This is the sound of big Yong sorting recyclables) (Not decorated) (Decorated) [I'll show you some that came out well]  [Not all of it could be filmed] [But I decorated Polaroids almost every day..] I decorated these today. (Proud) Sticker. Sweet potato! Leggo~ Hello~ Heart. I'm going to start decorating again! Oh my god~ I really worked hard decorating them. Of the pictures, there are some that weren't picked. These were over the total 200..
[Friends that weren't picked because there were over 200 ;.;] So pretty~ (Embarrassed after saying it) Even in the back of my phone. Anyway I shot a lot in different situations. And I decorated Polaroids a lot in my spare time So I completed 200 of them! There are also stickers like this. A logo sticker And this one that I wrote myself. [Solar handwritten sticker!]
Yongwangnims~ Thank you for 2 million. Let's go on for a long time! [2 million event gift]
This, a Polaroid, and this is... Familiar, right? As the Blancow model Reaching 2 million subscribers this time I carefully made a request to them. And they very gladly took part in this 2 million subscriber event. First, thank you so much, Blancow. (Bow) I love you. Blancow song.
(Written/Composed/Sung by: Solar) Blancow~ Blancow~ Pong pong pong pong~ Let's wash up! Anyway, Blancow gave me 200 of these. So Blong.. I said 'Blong-cow' I'm able to give one Blancow [product] each as well. Also, lastly! Please add background music. The final grand prize is?! There's a hint here! Somewhere! Can you guess it? This doll? No no no~ Balloon? No no no~ Ah, people who know, Yongwangnims who are very astute may know. It's this necklace! You can see the number 2 in it, right? I got this necklace made in light of 2 million subscribers. I'm very pragmatic So that this could be used comfortably. Something simple.
(It's a necklace that was created through lots of meetings) It looks like this when I'm wearing it. Something that can be comfortably worn, so I prepared this necklace. So, with this necklace, Blancow foam cleansing And a Polaroid. And these stickers included. That's how it's going to release.
(It's quite fruitful, right?) Honestly, I wondered how I would put together part 2 for this video. It's a video made with the meaning of thanks. So I hope you watch it positively. You're probably curious how you can receive this. It will go out as a caption below here. If you go in here You just have to apply. Then- The world nowadays has become really nice! Really nice. Machines, right away just, randomly draws 200 people. To 200 people, I plan on giving these gifts. I'm really really sorry for only being able to give it to 200 people. But, if another good thing happens I will think a little more about it then. And I will work harder to make it so a happier day comes to all our Yongwangnims. Anyway, in either the description or comments, I will add this link in. So, people who want to apply, you can do that by going into this link. This gift is also.. Won't be shipped right away. It could take a little while! Since it will be 200 people, and having to contact them. It could take a little while. Please just know that Really prettily, caringly, to your front door! I will have it sent. Now, today's challenge! Ah, today wasn't a challenge. Today was part 2 of the 2 million subscriber event! Thank you so much for watching. I will return again with a great challenge. Thank you~ Subscribe, like. I... The appearance of the 200 Polaroids I decorated... I'm showing you it. Wow, there are a lot. Really, whenever I had a schedule Even during a show I shot these And while resting Whenever I came home, while watching tv Each one, preciously, I made these in my spare time, in a fun way. I hope you treasure it well. Don't sell them on places where you sell used items. Okay? Our Yongwangnims? [Subtitles by: ch0sshi] 