A soccer-field sized patch of forest in frigid
Alaska has about 40 different species of plants, compared with about 70 in temperate England
and 300 in the Amazonian rain forest. These biodiversity differences hold true for
entire countries, too: England has 1500 plant species, while tropical Guyana. The super-diversity of tropical rainforests
is only equalled in one other type of ecosystem on Earth: scrubby fire-prone shrublands that
grow in western Australia and southern Africa. These shrublands may not look as majestic
as tropical rainforests, but in a given area, they’re home to similarly stupendous numbers
of species. Which doesn’t necessarily mean that the
rainforests and shrublands are easy places for plants to live. In fact, both ecosystems owe their enormous
diversity, in part, to the fact that their soils have critically low supplies of nitrogen
and especially phosphorus, nutrients plants need in order to grow. The plant world’s leading biodiversity hotspots
are, quite literally, dirt poor. Logically, it seems like richer soils should
support more species. But in nature, as in human society, ‘plenty
of resources’ doesn’t necessarily translate into ‘everyone gets plenty’. In meadows, forests, and wetlands around the
world, we consistently find more or bigger plants but fewer species where soil nutrients
are highest. The fastest-spreading species soak up most
of the extra nutrients, which lets them keep growing super fast, which lets their roots
suck up so much water, and their leaves snatch up so much sunlight, that other, slower species
actually get LESS of those resources than otherwise. So in rich soils, slower species die out while
the fast-growers win big. On the other hand, poor soils don’t provide
enough nutrient capital for fast-growing plants to build their massive infrastructures and
take all the resources. So poor soils inhibit the greedy and allow
everyone else to scrabble by. We see this pattern in human society also
- there’s a far greater number of businesses – mostly small – in poor countries, while
fewer bigger companies dominate in rich countries. But crummy soil isn’t the only thing that
helps super high diversity blossom; for example, beaches, mountaintops, and other places frequently
ravaged by harsh weather or catastrophic events have poor soils AND few plant species. The other major prerequisite for hyperdiversity
is time. On most of the planet, glaciers regularly
bulldoze away ecosystems and grind up mineral-rich rock, creating new soil perfect for growth
but not diversity. However, our high-diversity rainforests and
shrublands have spent millions of years beyond the reach of the ice sheets, leaving their
residents plenty of undisturbed time to evolve a wide variety of ingenious strategies for
surviving nutrient poverty – strategies that have allowed for the development of tall,
diverse, rainforests in wet poor soils and scrubby, diverse, shrublands in dry poor soils. The human landscape also seems to follow a
similar pattern, with the highest cultural and linguistic diversity as well as the greatest
number of businesses in climatically stable places where humans have been the longest
and where economic resources are scarce. So in some ways, the poorest places on earth
are actually (also) the richest. 