Hello, I'm Odin and today I'm gonna make
something a little different. I'm gonna make Brooke's Soul
king hat from One Piece. For this project, I started by making my
pattern on the computer. The Brook's crown is
basically an inverted cone, or a better description would be it's more to the shape of
an oversized paper cup. And I found a website that would generate the two dimensional art that's need to get a cone my custom size. It even added the circles
I need with proper spacing, and then I went and added the crown points and the hat band guides in Photoshop. I punch holes in the paper
for all of my guide marks, the seven circles and the hat band guides. I'm using six millimeter
HD-Foam for the crown and since I'll be painting
this a lighter color, I trace my cut marks with a pencil. I don't want permanent ink showing through a light color of paint. All of my guide marks are different. I'll be covering those with more foam. And since they are all just little dots, permanent ink is easier
for making these marks. This'll end up being most of the crown. I cut it from a single
piece of six millimeter foam being careful not to over
cut the inside corners and the valleys and the points. And if I just glue the two edges together, I have my basic shape. I lay the pattern on the back of my piece, and only mark the circle guides. I plan to add a ring here to help glue in the inside cover. I coat the edges with contact cement and I clean the edges of
excess glue with scrap foam. I just need to wait for the
contact cement to kinda dry. Then I can stick these edges together. so it's just that much easier
for you to check one out. Now the contact cement is
ready to stick together. It's not like normal glue, let it dry on each piece and
then they'll stick together like pieces of tape. I add cement all the way
around the hat band guides. I try to keep the glue inside of my marks. Extra cement will leave like a texture that you can see even after painting. I space my marks 20 millimeters apart which is the widest half round foam dowel that HD-Foam makes. One package has two pieces and they're long enough for both bands. Now if you don't wanna buy
a pack of half round foam, just cut two 20 millimeter strips about 36 inches long, or you can make three quarter inch strips about 92 centimeters long. Whichever way you wanna measure it. Once the cement dries, my first thought is to line
up the seams in the back. Yeah, I don't wanna do that. What we're gonna do is actually shift it over a little bit intentionally because what I'll wanna do is not have all the seams
directly in line with each other. I stick both bands down keeping them next to each other and trim the overlap on the ends. Now there's not a lot of stress on the one seam here that runs straight up in the actual crown, but I wanted to stagger this seam and this seam on either side of it to help make sure that
it actually stayed round. I've had too many seams that over a little bit of time they've relaxed and kinda go to a point because all a cuts are
aligned at the same spot. I take down the piece of the scrap foam from cutting out the crown and I set my circle cutter to make one and a half inch circles. These will be the first layer of the foam for the decoration on the crown. And it is true that I
cut all my circles out using a special tool that I actually think is really kinda cool and easy to use. But if you don't have one of those and you wanna cut a circle out, all you need is anything
that's gonna help you make a round shape. Press it in there, be careful that you don't wander and you keep your line straight and then you cut it out. So you don't need a special
tool to cut out a circle. All you can do is trace the circle around anything that's the right size that you'd like to use and then cut it out with whatever razor knife
you're using already. Those tools I like because
they're easier and faster but they're not required. I cut a strip of foam for the inside band and contact cement it in place just under the guide marks
I made on the inside. This band is to help the placement of the top cover that goes inside the crown after it's painted. I should cut out about
12 and a half circle and force that into shape. It'll be perfect. I cut out one of the circle holes to use as a stencil. This is for the cement
placement on the crown itself. And after a couple of minutes, I can stick the circles on. Now the day before I
actually started to build, I pressed some foam clay
into a paint palette to make the rounded bumps that I need. It'll take a day or more for these to dry because the plastic palette
slows down the dry time. And I'm careful while removing these because they're still a little squishy. And I used up all of my cat toys on the previous couple of builds. I carefully trim the bottoms off so that they'll sit flatter and then contact cement
these bumps to the crown. I then use my heat gun to heat seal all the foam to the crown. I just forgot to record
that part with my camera. I sprayed two coats of white Plasti Dip over the whole thing as a primer and an additional sealer to the foam. Then I paint the crown
with a bright yellow color. And since it's a little
colder outside right now, this paint took well over
24 hours to fully dry. I start on the hat brim. I made a pattern for one side of the brim with alignment cuts on the inside corners. The corners let me lay out
my one, two, three blocks and then use them as a guide to mark the squarish brim of the hat. You could always just print
out more pattern pieces and tape them together to get the full shape if you wanted. So I cut my hat brim out
of 10 millimeter foam for a couple of reasons. First off, it's thicker and so
it looks more like the anime. I can get 10 millimeter half round so what this is it's like a foam dowel but it's been cut in half. It's smooth on one side and then half round on the other so I can actually glue
that on the edge as a trim to finish it off so it doesn't just look
like a cut sheet of foam. But in between the half
round and the foam, I'm gonna glue in some Armature wire. This is just the stuff that you use for making clay sculpts. I'm gonna glue a ring of
that around the outside so you can actually bend and
pose the hat a little bit. I use my wood burner to make a channel around the outside of the foam. I place the Armature wire into the channel poking the end in the foam to help hold it in place. And I work my way around the full brim keeping the wire in the channel and covering it with a 10 millimeter half
round and contact cement. I find the center by setting
a ruler to each corner and I place a pin in that center mark and then spin a ruler around it to draw a nine inch circle in
the center of the brim. I messed up on my first pass, so I hope the crown will cover
that bigger drawn circle. I cut another strip of foam and glue it just inside the circle. The crown will end up
fitting over this brim so I can glue it to the
brim right where I want it. And that hole in the middle, well I had used my carpenter square and a speed square to measure my head. First front to back and then side to side so I could cut out one that
was about the right shape. I still got it a little wrong, this cutouts a little small but it's foam so, whatever. That's a little too tight still. It's probably better 'cause
it will fit someone else. It doesn't need to fit me. And the crown fits right
where it's supposed to. Yeah, that's right. And I place a 12 and a half inch circle of six millimeter foam inside to finish the hat. (upbeat music) I ordered all my HD-Foam
from Blick Art Supplies because they have free shipping. Brook's hat from One Piece. Brook is a pretty cool character, I actually like him a lot and I really love the fact that he's got quite the wild fashion sense. And he's got a number of
different hats of course, but this one I enjoyed and I like the fact that
on the model sheet itself it shows it's actually
two different pieces. It's a floppy hat with
a crown on top of it. I built it all as one 'cause that would make more
sense to actually wear. Amazon does sell a Brook's hat. It's a lot smaller with a plushy type brim that really didn't appeal to me so I thought I would
go ahead and make one. And of course, I made it out of foam because this is how Odin Makes. (upbeat music) (beeping tone) (laughs) Because this is how Odin Makes. (laughs) (beeping tone) I wanna thank Sean Parker, Roland Beaulieu Jr, and all
of my Patreon supporters. You guys really do make
this show possible. If you like the video, don't forget to subscribe. Have an idea for something for me to make? Please, leave a comment below. And if you make any of these projects, you can send me a picture. (upbeat music) 