The sky is not blue – it’s mostly transparent
air which is, at best, the color of whatever light it scatters. Sure, it does scatter blue
light more than red light; in fact, the higher the frequency of light, the more it gets scattered
by the atmosphere, so ultraviolet scatters more than blue, which scatters more than green,
more than yellow, more than red, more than infrared – but still, only a tiny bit of
light scatters while most of it goes straight through, which is, you know, how the sun can
light up the ground, why we can see the moon and stars, etc. The sun itself actually emits a wide range
of frequencies of light, and our human eyes perceive this particular combination as "white”
or neutral in color. The vast majority of the sky appears blueish because sunlight that
was trying to go somewhere else got scattered by the air and instead ended up in your eye.
Bummer. It still has a wide range of frequencies in it, but with slightly more blue than in
white light, roughly the same amount of green, and less red. You can see a simple demonstration of this
on a computer if I take a white background, add a bit of deep blue and subtract a tiny
bit of pure red: I get a nice sky color! And the reverse effect happens when you look
near the sun – light that was trying to get to your eyes gets scattered away, and
so the remaining light has a lot less blue and slightly more red compared with white
light, which is why the sun and the sky directly around it appear yellowish during the day!
At sunset, there’s even more air for the light to scatter off of before it reaches
you, hence the even richer oranges and reds. And of course you can do the computer demo
again, this time subtracting pure blue and adding a little red: voila! Noontime sun.
Subtract more blue and add even more red? Sunset orange. So, the sky is not blue; it’s a stage upon
which all colors dance. Red colors tend to dance in straighter lines, green colors more
randomly, and deep blue colors dance the most frenetically of all. Yet at some point, they
ultimately dance their way into your eyes, and my eyes, and to the earth and into space,
so that everyone everywhere can appreciate the grand ballet 