- This shirt says "Do it for the Vine," but when I sit like this, it looks like it just says "Do it!" Which by itself just seems
very aggressive. I'm sorry. Hey, little stinkers. Welcome back to the first
and only channel on YouTube. I know what you're thinking:
"Two videos in one week! Uh, who's this guy? And
what did he do with Drew?" But I rest assured this, this is me. So today I'm going to be
reacting to my old Vines. This is something I thought of all on my own and I've never
seen anyone else do before, so I'm excited to be the first. Just kidding. Obviously. Literally every Viner-turned-YouTuber has done one of these at some point. And for a good reason,
they get hella views. I've actually wanted
to do this for a while but I was waiting for the right time. And the reason this is the right time is because I recently hit a very important and specific milestone
that is special to me. 407,000 subscribers. That probably sounded
like a joke, but it's not. Uh, 407,000 is the number
of Vine followers I had when Vine closed down. No matter what, I'm always
going to owe my start to Vine. But to get to this point now where I can definitively
and quantifiably say, I can point to a number that shows I took what I have on
Vine and improved on it. And moved to a platform
that I think I'm better at. And that showcases my
comedic sensibilities in a more complete way. And that, also, I've turned into a career. It's, it's just surreal. It really is. So in honor of this
milestone, I'm going to be watching whatever
nonsense I made when I was 21 while acting like I'm
somehow better than that even though I'm the exact same person now. So let's just jump into it. All right. Drew Gooden, Vine compilation. (typing) I don't want to just watch my own because I don't include some of the ones that I
don't think are as good. I'd rather watch one that's just, like, all my Vines from start to finish. So I'll do this one: "Best Vine Videos." Oh my God. We're like five seconds in and
it's already full on cringe. I'm sorry guys. - Hey, Peyton Nichole,
if you're watching this, you are a butt head! And
you don't know how to swim. - Oh my god. Peyton was such a bitch. I mean, sometimes you got
to put people in their place and if you knew Peyton you'd understand. Holy shit. She was the worst. - I know how to swim
and I'm not ignoxious. At least I've had a boyfriend
cause you're so stupid. - This is so cringe. This is so cringe. I'm sorry, guys. I don't know what I was thinking
when I made most of these. - ♪ Country boy, I love you! ♪ Ah. ♪ - People used to make fun
of me for this all the time and I didn't appreciate that. Okay? I was just a kid back then. What do I, what did I know? All right? I thought I could sing. I thought I looked cool and
I loved that country boy. - Dominic Sara is hot and sexy. He's number three. And he kissed me on the lips. - Dude. I was so boy crazy back then. It's hard to like, this was
obviously before I met Amanda, I met Amanda through Vine, but then to like see
how different I am now. See how much I've matured,
how much I've changed. Like, I don't have any
of these clothes anymore. I don't know whose mom that is. I don't think that's my do- Wait, who's that dog?
Whose fucking dog is this? What the hell? This isn't me. (jazzy music plays) Okay. So I figured out
what happened yesterday. That wasn't me. It was a little girl. Yeah. I was watching all
those Vines and I was like, "I don't remember making any of these," but I didn't want to look like an idiot. So I just went along with it. But I guess I really
look like an idiot now. I'll probably just cut
that part out of the video. But don't worry, today I made sure, I double checked already. I made sure that these are me. These are my Vines. So from here on out, it will
be authentic Drew Gooden Vines. I'm so sorry about that. When Vine was around, if you made it back to my very first Vine, at least my first, like,
Vine that's still public, you'd see this: - If you're serious about
mayonnaise then, you know, you need to use Duke's. - This was a commercial
for Duke's Mayonnaise, which is like funny enough as it is. But then to, the expression, "If you're serious about mayonnaise," which no one's that
serious about mayonnaise, it's mayonnaise. "Then you know, you need to use Duke's." And they were just like, "All right, perfect. We got
it. That's going on TV." And then I got into, I remember one night after improv class, I was like, "You know what? I'm going to make Vines. I'm going to take this seriously." It was January, 2015. - That moment when you're having sex. And it feels a real good. Thanks for watching my Vine. Follow me on Vine for more. - I was like right away, I was
just doing, like, anti humor. - No, it's called the week end because it's at the end of the week. Honey, stop changing the subject. Answer my question. - That was probably my least liked Vine. Cause it doesn't really make sense. One thing I've always
find really funny is, like, non sequitur to begin a scene. Like you cut into a scene, and
it's the middle of the scene. So you don't start from the
beginning of a conversation, you start from the middle
of the conversation. And it's funny to start at a certain point because
it implies what was just said because that implies, I was
like, "Will you marry me?" And she's like, "Oh, I don't know. I, I, I, I, hey, you know what's weird? The weekend. What do they call it that?" That, you know, the more I explain it, the less funny it gets. Some of the ones before this were good, but this was the first
one to get any traction. - This is my favorite shirt. Oh, we have so much in common. We even have the same
nemesis, Jeff Daniels. - That was the first vine
I made where I was like I watched it. And I was like, "This is
good. I know what I'm doing." I think a lot of the
ideas for these were funny but I just didn't always execute them well and that was true up until even
like some of my last Vines. One of my favorite Vines,
or my favorite ideas, was - Hi, it's Vince with ShamWow, you'll be saying, wow every
time you use this towel. It's like a shammy. It's like a towel. - I've had the idea of like, doing something with a
closed caption writer because it's such a, first of all most
stressful job in the world. Gotta be, right? You gotta type really fucking fast. And what happens if you get behind? What happens if you go to the bathroom? You know, what a, what a
weird, crazy, stressful job. But like this poor guy who
only has one finger left is just like, "Oh, fuck." I just wish I had like
framed the shot better. I was kind of lazy when it
came to things like that. But had, I just made this look better, this would have been, this
would've been a really good Vine. - All right guys, I've got
some chores for you to do... Wait, what are you doing with those? Don't do, get, don't do
that, get the fuck away - That's a funny idea. The idea of like spending
so much money on clones. I spent my entire life savings and I have two clones and
finally, like, I can just chill. Right? One of them goes to work for me. The other one goes shopping for me, attends social events so I don't have to and I can just stay home and
fucking play video games. But then I walk in like, "All
right, let's... what are you?" And they're just sixty-nining. That's so funny. That's hilarious. Is my hubris showing? I'm sorry. - Hey, you want to watch Spider Man 2? - I can't, I haven't seen the first one. I remember my original idea for this was much longer than this, and it wasn't, it, this
was before I had a grasp on, like, what I could fit
in six and a half seconds. But it was like, "Hey, you
want to watch Spider Man 3?" "I can't, I haven't seen the second one." "Oh, you wanna watch Spider-Man 2?" "I can't, I haven't seen the first one." And then it was like,
"Oh, well that sucks." Which isn't funny. The only thing funny about this is, like, to reveal to the slide and
the other one is under it. So now we're a few months
in, I had started to build a little bit of a
following and I started to feel pressure that I
hadn't really felt before. You know, when I, before
when I had no followers, I could post something,
and if I didn't like it, I could delete it. No one
ever saw it, whatever. But now it's like, "Oh, I got
to post the best stuff only." You know, like this was the first time
I had bought props for a Vine. Cause, you know, I was big
time now I had 20,000 followers and I bought all these
like fridge magnets. Cause I thought the idea
of telling a punchline in front of a fridge where
I'm spelling out the punchline or whatever, I thought
that was really funny. So the first one is kind of funny - When you're, when you
show up late to the party, but they haven't but there's still some Triscuits left. (cheerful 90s music) The second one is not funny at all. - When your dad won't stop asking you about lacrosse practice. (angry metal music) And I think the best comments
I got on that were like, people tagging their friends they play lacrosse with. It wasn't even like, "This is funny." It's like "He said lacrosse.
That's the thing we do." And then in this third
one, Amanda always tells me that I looked very sickly. - When you get sad a lot
but you don't know why. - ♪ I'm walking on sunshine, whoa ♪ - And I agree with that. I
don't know why I look like I have been starving myself for years. One of the Vines, or multiple
Vines, that I'm proudest of are these Wendy's pranks. - I have a question:
Is Wendy working today? - [Offscreen] Bro, you
didn't roll your window down. - What? Is Wendy working today? - [Offscreen] I think they're closed. - Yeah, me too. - Hey, is Wendy working today? - [Offscreen] Dude, I
think we're at Taco Bell. - What? How? - Cause I had that idea for a long time and then it was just a matter
of doing it and I'm very shy. I'm a little bit less so now. But especially back then, it was like I wasn't actually going to go up to a drive through window and like say, "Hey, is Wendy working today?"
and get their real response. So many people do stuff like that, and I applaud them for their balls but I don't have any, I got them removed. I was neutered. So the only way I could do this was if I drove up to the drive-thru
while they were closed. But the thing about the Wendy's by my house is that
they closed at 4:00 AM. I set an alarm for like 3:30 and I got up and I went out and did
this at almost 5:00 AM. And then I went to Taco Bell, which was also closed and I did this and then I came home and I
was giggling, I was editing. I was doing the voiceover for
the other character that was behind the camera and was
just like, "Oh, I'm so funny." And it's the middle of the night and "Oh, I'm so crazy for
doing this at nighttime." I was such a dweeb, but not anymore. I'm very cool and smart now. So during this time I
had already met Amanda. If you guys don't know who Amanda is, I know I've said her name a couple of times throughout this
video, she is my fiance. I met her on Vine. If you wanna hear the
whole story about that, I, it's in my Vine video,
"Vine: Where are they Now?" Anyway this was the first time we met. This was like the sec,
our second day together. And I was like, well, I got
to get some content out of it. - No, I'm, I'm sorry. I can't. I'm not interested. The joke being that I
was expecting to see Ryan from High School Musical and was disappointed to see
it was a beautiful woman. - You tired of the convenience and practicality of bottled water? (fart noise) Then you gotta try water in your hands. Water in your hands! Make a mess! - A little behind the
scenes from that Vine. This shot here, where the
water comes out onto my hands. So picture this, right:
I'm alone in my room, both my hands are occupied, but I need to somehow
pour water into them. And I'm certainly not going to
ask someone for help, right? How did I get the water
to fall into my hands? See, not a lot of people
thought about this. I had to, I had to put it in my mouth and spit it out onto my hands. (Drew humming Star Wars theme) So Amanda had a coupon to get
professional pictures taken at like JC Penny or something. And we, you know, being the
weird couple that we are, didn't want to take like
good sincere pictures. She bought these shirts online, these matching Chewbacca shirts. This is probably, looking back,
if I had to pick one Vine, that was my favorite, I think
maybe this is my favorite. - The bathroom is right here. I placed a secret, hidden camera in the bathroom to catch
Aquaman with his pants down. - Why is there a guy in here? - It's just such a funny visual gag like a s, a secret hidden camera. And he goes, and I'm thinking like, "Ooh
I'm going to get him good." And he just sees a fucking
dude with a camera. - Yo, dumbass, get over here. - Okay. - Okay, I'm coming! - I thought I was dumbass. (slapping noises) - "I thought I was dumbass." The story behind that one
is I had a coworker, Jimmy, who was like 50 something
nice, super nice guy. But he always call me "kiddo." Cause I don't know. I think
he just forgot my name. So he'd be like, "Hey, kiddo,
can you bring me the tools?" So then a few days into the first job I
did with this company, the lighting guy, Eric, came. And he wasn't my age, he
was a little bit older, but he was relatively young. Right. And then I overheard
Jimmy call him "kiddo." And I had this like fake moment of like, "Oh, I thought I was kiddo." I just thought that was so funny. Cause it's like, it's kind of a condescending nickname to be like, "Hey kid," you know, "come
wipe my butt for me," which was easily the
worst part of that job. - [Voiceover] Coming up: Mark
reaches a breaking point. - You have to take all these sweaters off! - And Jerry! - I remember having such
high hopes for this Vine. I was like, "Oh, it's going
to get on the comedy page. It's going to blow up."
You know, "It's so funny." And, "Look, I put peanut
butter on myself." I really like went the extra mile for this and it fucking tanked. And honestly it is kind of funny, but I think it's one of those
things where in my head, I thought people would applaud the fact that I rubbed peanut
butter all over my chest. But I think it was off-putting that I rubbed peanut
butter all over my chest. - Hey, wait up! - Can't stop, lady! - But I'll kiss you! - Huh? (tires screech) Gross. - That's my favorite
Vine I made with Amanda. The shoes, the empty shoes and the, the screech sound effect. So this Vine out of context
makes absolutely no sense, but I was on the news.
I was on the local news. - So now that Vine's over and
I have nothing in my life. I'm going to walk into the- Hey, guys. So now I'm two ducks. - So I met this reporter. Her name was Caitlyn Jones, I believe. I met her downtown and, like,
the camera guy was there and he don't, I don't think
he said a word the whole time. I felt so awkward cause they were like, "Well, could you kind of
talk us through the process of making a vine and then make one here?" And it's like, "So you want to film me coming up with a Vine,
that's not going to be funny because I'm just pulling
it out of my ass." And so I was like, "All right. Well here I'll do one like purposely bad, I guess." And so this is what I came up with. So then picture, like, this grown woman who's trying to humor me
and trying to be like, "Yeah, this is cool that you did this. And you're very funny, for sure." And then this, this guy who
just doesn't give a shit. He's just there holding
a big, heavy camera. And they're just watching me
shit post? Such a funny day. - "Road work ahead?" Yeah, I sure hope it does. - It's the, the, from the
picture, from the paint art. The reason I love this Vine so much, like, it's not my best
Vine, I don't think. I think I have 10, 15 Vines easily that are better than this one. But this one is so quotable. And because it's, it's something that anyone
could have said, right? It's just an observation. Road, you see "roadwork
ahead" signs everywhere. And especially after seeing this Vine you see them all over the place. You start to notice them more. I, every time I see it,
I think of the Vine. And it's cool to have
impacted so many people from just such a small quote. I think this is the Vine
that has shown me the impact that posting something online that people resonate with has, can do. I don't remember how I
started that sentence. My favorite video anyone's
ever sent me is this one from a school. - [Drew] Road work ahead? - [Students] I sure hope it does! - I came up with a thing and then all these kids know
it off the top of their head. You know, there's so many quotable Vines that will live on forever
because they're, you know, you say it and people
can finish the quote, or they know exactly
what you're referencing. And I'm so happy that even if this is, like, the only Vine that's like that, the only Vine of mine that's like that, that I can be one of those Vines. - I sure hope it does. You can post something,
a video, on the internet and then it can just change your life. Like a few years ago I
was so directionless. I had no idea what I
was doing with my life. And I made excuses for a long time. Like, "Oh, I would be good at Vine, I would be good at YouTube,
but I'm not going to do it." Like I would come up with
ideas, but I wouldn't do them. And then one day I stopped making excuses and I just started. And then a few months later, after like, and I sucked at it too right away. I wasn't good. So like, dude, if you're out there I'm going to try to
make this motivational. If you're out there and you're, and you're trying to make videos, and you feel like they're not very good and you could improve on them. Don't, like, lose hope. Like if you think like,
"I can do better than this I don't know why these aren't good." Just keep fucking doing it. Like everyone is bad at everything the first time they do it. If no one's watching you, that's great. If you, that means if you
post something stupid, no one sees it. Just delete it and keep it trying. And you'll eventually, if
you get lucky, you know, and you just keep working
at it, eventually, I think you can break through
and reach an audience. So shoot your shot, baby. Go out there, seize the day,
carpe the diem, and just do it. Huh. I wasn't expecting
to go on some, like, motivational speech rant there. But you know, when,
when you feel something in the moment you just got
to do it and I feel good. You know, I feel inspired
every time I watch my old Vines I just like, I think about all the shit I've
done in the past few years. And, and I just feel
like anything's possible. And I want to spread that to the world. You know, I feel great right now. Sure would suck if I had to
interrupt this nice moment by doing, like, a brand deal or something. Guys, I will try to be back next week. Thank you so much for all
your support, especially those of you who have followed
me here from my Vine days. And you've, you've followed
my content for years now and you've seen how I've
evolved and gotten better at some things and worse at other things and had long periods where
my content wasn't as good which is inevitable, because that's just the
kind of person I am. 407,000 subscribers was a
big personal milestone for me but it also means we're close to 500,000. I just said, we, I just
said, "We're close." I, that's like my biggest pet peeve, when YouTubers refer to themselves as if they're multiple people
and they say, "We just did-" And I just did it. I'm becoming the thing I hate. So I'll see you guys next time
and I'll see you next time. I just realized that you, this is my this is my 100,000 subscriber plaque. You can't even fucking see it. Cause it's just, it's just a
big ball of light right now. I'm so stupid. Why does anyone follow me? I don't understand. 