Although my mornings are always more productive than my evenings I always like to allocate a few of my tasks for the night: normally non-priority tasks or things that don't require a high level of concentration. As always, the first thing I do is check my bullet journal and see what I need to do for the next day or the next few days. I am currently working at my local students union designing posters and flyers for any future events. So I prefer the night-time to get inspired to work. Before I start reading my law textbooks or working on any other thing, I make sure I have these projects completed and ready to share before anything else. And since I use Photoshop for most of my work, generally it is mandatory to use copyright-free images and shapes to produce those materials. After that, I usually just check my schedule on my phone and see what classes I need to prepare or catch up on for the next day, and scroll through Instagram and other social media and see what's up. This is when I usually also reply to you guys on the comment section and read your requests for future videos. then it's time to do some reading for the next day. If I haven't prepare my classes before, like I explained in one of my last videos I will use this time to skim through the chapter that will be lectured and try to have a notion of what I will learn in class. If I'm feeling specially lazy which happens a lot in the evening I will just read in bed and take that time to relax a bit. If I need to, I will also highlight the most important key words and sentences in my textbook and enjoy a bit of music or a cup of tea. If I've forgotten to solve a case or exercice from my classes I will also take the chance to do so at night. This happens a lot in the middle of the week because I'm working at a lawyer firm on wednesdays and thursdays in the morning and I don't have enough time to prepare for class. In that sense I need to reline nighttime to tackle all of my work. Also many time I will not be able to be perfectionnist and solve the cases exactly as I mean to just by having an overall notion of the solution I will make sure that my classes will be more productive. I will usually finish my evenings by having a look in my planner and see whatever events or due dates are coming up and filling in the blank spaces wherever I need to. As I've said before, the main difference between my planner and my bullet journal is that my bullet journal is mainly comprise of to do lists, and short term and long term projects. And then I use a planner for date related events and things that have a specific time frame. Althought it may sounds confusing I'm really enjoying this system so far althought I'm thinking on using a bullet jouranl for the both things in the future. I hope you've enjoy this video! Don't forget to subscribe, and I'll see you next week! Bye! 