(1st place for 'iTunes Album' in 58 countries)
(Highest record within the K-POP girl groups ) (Not only beautiful but also charismatic, OH MY GOD!) (All of my friends like (G)I-DLE these days!) (Time to fall in love with (G)I-DLE!) Time for the K-POP stars to show off their charms that their fans have been waiting, Inkigayo's backstage show SHINDONG GAYO Hello, this is ShinDong I will introduce you the guest 
for today's SHINDONG GAYO The world's hottest K-POP star They've even made it to 5 charts in Billboard They are renewing their records everyday They've came back with their title song 
'OH MY GOD' Nice to meet you! Hello, we are I-DLE Ah, nice to meet you I'm always confused,
whether I have to call you guys '(G)I-DLE' or just 'I-DLE' But on tv, it seems like you guys are 
always mentioned as 'I-DLE' is '(G)' supposed to be silent? Yes, I think you're the first person to call us 'I-DLE' Oh really? 
Does everyone always call you guys as (G)I-DLE? Yes
(thank you, thank you) Oh, that's how they usually call you? I knew it from the beginning~ Now, can each one of you introduce yourself? Yes. Hello, I'm I-DLE's Minnie
(The master of 'dreamlike' concept) nice to meet you Hello, I'm I-DLE's Mi Yeon
(Innocent, refreshing noodle MiYeon) Hello, I'm I-DLE's So Yeon
(The monster created through 'survival') Hello, I'm I-DLE's Yuqi
(All-round 'fan-luring fairy' Yuqi) Hello, I'm I-DLE's Shuhua
(Innocent, elegant visual representative Shuhua) Hello, I'm I-DLE's Soo Jin
(Next generation's 'One of a kind' Soo Jin) Yes, we have 6 members here with us~ We are going to start today's show with the I-DLE In this first part,
you can hear about this only in SHINDONG GAYO A time to hear about every little trivia that the I-DLE had 
while preparing for this comeback It's time for 'TMI News' (Yuqi surprised by sudden News music) Hello everyone, I’m Shin Dong Anchor from TMI News Let ’s start from the first news I heard that there was an incident while filming the MV There was a 'King' among these 6 members A king? I know, I know
(Does Shuhua know?!) It was the leader, So Yeon She was the 'King of being focused' 
and not making any NGs Oh, you haven't made any NGs? While filming the MV? Are there such thing as NGs while filming MVs? Of course~ Wow, you're amazing~ (Smiling gently and showing SWAG) Are you serious? 
You don't make any NGs for the MV? You know how it's really tiring 
and time consuming when you film MVs, So, I try my best while filming it and just do it Oh, okay, then is there a 'King of NG'? Oh! Mi Yeon here Me?? I've received this information from the manager Who said that?? It's from you manger What? That's right, it's from your manager I don't remember anything And there's one more, Soo Jin? Soo Jin is also very good at being focused Oh, what, why is it only me~! So, Mi Yeon is the only one who doesn't practice well? Are you that kind of a person? If not, please show us how you acted for the MV Angel, angel Pretend to be an angel (Angelic look in the MV) (Mi Yeon's acting will light up SHINDONG GAYO) Right now, you're not an angel You're just normal right now, just normal,
you were normal unitl but now you are An angel 
3, 2, 1 action Fail! (Nice try) I'm joking, just joking
Ah, you did a good job Everyone, everyone of I-DLE did a good job Now for the second news We've received this news 
from I-DLE's most tardiest person We must talk about this Now everyone close your eyes Have all of you closed your eyes, 
so that you guys can truthfully confess? If you think you are the 'King of being late' 
please raise your hand and put them back down One, two, three Please put your hands back down (Manager's pick as the 'King of NG')
(Personal pick as the 'King of being late') Okay, that person has told us truthfully So, we will truthfully listen to 
what that person has got to say Mi Yeon, why are you always late? (Something's gone wrong today) Since you confessed truthfully yourself It's because.. I have a lot of things to do It takes a long time for me to do things Oh, it's your habit to do things slowly When we have to get ready, she goes to the toilet When we need to do something, 
she goes 'Wait, I need to fix!' Wait a minute! Toilet! It's because she's nervous
and she wants to be perfectly prepared~ I'm sorry I'll try not to be like that from now on Oh, you'll will not be like that from now on? Now promise, look at the camera and promise You won't be like that
From now on, when you get ready You won't go 'Wait' Actually, I was already trying to fix this problem Yeah, you didn't do it today Really? What will you do from now on 
if you say 'Wait!' again If I say 'Wait!' again, I'll apologize Ah yes, she said she'll apologize Weak, weak, that's too weak In contrast, is there a member who is too fast at doing everything? A person who is like, 'She's too quick' Being too fast could also be annoying too, you know For example, a person like Lee Teuk, always arrives early, even when the shoot hasn't even started yet, and goes
"Oh, hello~ Our members are a little late" There's always a person like this Is there a person like this among you guys? Me! Shuhua, are you quick at everything? Yes, I am fast What are you talking about! I am! Really! (Having a deep conversation with their eyes) Oh wait! Okay, I agree that you're fast at 
getting prepared for a schedule I think I know who, So Yeon's always like 'let's go go!' even though nobody's ready yet Oh, there's always a person who hurries others I want you guys to please hurry There's always a member who always hurries other, that's me in our group Now Let's go~ (So true hahaha) This is it for the 'TMI news'. Thank you Now, it's time for I-DLE and I to make a 
'in-sync choreography' video Shall we dance with SHINDONG? (Fatal) (We can see feel their charms 
even in this small space) (The stage is fully filled even without the back dancers) (God-So's fatal beauty) (Perfectly done choreography) (force) (An angel's appearance) It's a choreography that requires a lot of dynamics (Artistic) (Soft but perfectly synced choreography) We've seen 'OH MY GOD' Wow, there wasn't any fast moves 
but why was it so cool? I mean, I think you'll need 
a lot of energy to do this dance You have to keep, keep continue this feeling 
the whole time while dancing The neck hurts Just now, I saw Yuqi startle for a sec She was doing this and she startled once You need a lot of concentration Thank you for showing us the dance.
Now, from the dance, I want to learn the song's signature dance Which part will that part be? So Yeon's 1st chorus Shall we get in position first? I'll squeeze in, I even wore black today,
so I look like one of you guys I heard you guys are wearing black today center! center! I go for the center position? The person behind me will not be seen Then, So Yeon, you won't be seen Wait a minute, I need someone in front of me 
for me to see, can we change spot? Yes Yes I'll see from the back, okay Start, 'OH MY GOD' and then I'll do it this way
(The arms are stretched to opposite directions) Oh, then I'll do it this way then? Then we change position? How do we change it? Come forward now Yes, and then, 
ah, if I stand in the front I won't be able to see What's next, Soo Jin? Woah, this move makes you wobble It really does I should do it softly, and then?
I hold my head? Into the middle! You guys gather from both sides? 
Then I'll just face forward Oh ~ OK, so we do it like this, right? Now let's practice with the music (like this?) (I don't know here) (Choreography with complicated hand movements) (Hand movements that are hard to memorize) (Trying while watching the choreography video) (Cool) Oh, he did it? (Going to succeed today's cover dance?!) (good job) Now, I will try dancing OH MY GOD with I-DLE Now, tell us the rule. How many chances are there? You'll have 3 chances Why do you say it so sad You know I'm going to succeed it right away, right? Only once! Let's have only one go then Once? Isn't that too hard? twice? Okay, twice. I'll go with 2 chances I think I'll fail my first go, in the beiginning Okay, let's see if I can succeed in 2 tries Please look forward, and if I fail, I'll personally practice the dance by myself, film it and upload the video on my personal SNS Then, please don't succeed Please fail So, you guys have to evaluate me very strictly We haven't told you the angle for this. 
Just look at us and figure it out yourself Oh, I need to get the angles perfect, too? Yes, you need to be perfect Okay, I'll try.
If I'm too slow or if I loose my beat, 
you guys can decide whether I fail or succeed and then, tell us the result at the end Okay? Those who can see me while dancing 
please take a close look at me Now, in SHINDONG GAYO, we will challenge 
the 'Shall we dance with SHINDONG' for OH MY GOD (Will Shin Dong succeed in one try?) (Raised his hands too fast) (This is not it ㅠㅠ) Wrong wrong I got the beat wrong from the start no no Please check his SNS ~ I have one more chance left, Yuqi.
I'm sorry but I have one more chance. I had two chances Oh, wait a minute, the beat Normally, you'll be wrong as you try more Wait, why aren't you guys teaching me (Let's proceed quickly) Yeah, it's something like that~
(Yuqi is joking around with Dong sunbae) (Teaching him quickly, at the back) You're nice~ They are telling me at the back, don't worry We'll now go, please start the music (Well focused) (we have eyes on you) (glimpse) (The one trying to succeed and the one trying to stop it) Oh, He's wrong! (He lost the beat again) (Had her eyes on him all the time) Oh, He's wrong! I'm not wrong. I'm not wrong. 
It's because she said I'm wrong! I'm not wrong ~ Please check his SNS. Thank you ~ (one more time) It was originally 3 chances in total Okay then, let ’s do this. I'll upload the video on my SNS 
but let me get another try for me to succeed here okay I really want to show the audience that I can succeed Last try, everyone I will do my best this time to succeed 'OH MY GOD'
SHINDONG GAYO (16 years since debut, Dong Sunbae, 
who feels nervous in front of the dance) (Now comfortable) (1st hand movement success) (Overcoming the 2nd hard part) Success! OH MY GOD success Now that I've succeeded, 
I don't need to uploaded on my SNS, right? No! It's all recorded Okay. Since I promised, I'll dance this part and upload it on my SNS... If I keep making promesis like this, 
I think my SNS will be full of cover dances (Video taken by Shin Dong himself) (Dong Sunbae has kept his promise..★) Now, we've looked at your choreography After dancing, aren't you guys feeling hungry? yes So I've prepared this game to make your hungry stomachs full. Time for 'SHINDONG Store' Now, we've prepared all the foods that you guys like Do you guys like coffee? Yes Yes, you guys do Ramen Yes ~ Your voiced are getting louder. 
How about instant foods? Yeah! Cake! Yeah!
(Strong reaction) Snacks! (Screaming louder and louder) Lastly, foods that will boost your immunity! (I'll be waiting for you Mi Yeon) This is quite unfavorable but
it's the most expensive one if you guys don't want it yourself, you guys can give it to your staffs or you parents, they'll really like it Do you guys get to just take these foods? 
The answer is No It's no fun if you guys can just take these foods It's a mission that requires I-DLE's good teamwork It's called 'Let's become ONE, Telepathy'~ Do you guys know this game, by any chance? Yes You do? It's a game where all of you have to listen to a keyword and do a same pose You guys have a total of 6 chances You guys can take one section 
for each time you succeed Wow! Can we take all of them? Yes, if you succeed everything, you can take everything You can take everything within the section! We're getting rich today Yes, today you guys are getting rich So, when the game is done, with their spectacular teamwork, will they have their hands full of food 
or just go back home empty handed We have a great teamwork We have few rules to tell you You guys cannot speak after hearing the keyword and it's not possible to give signs with hands Don't look at each other! 
Do you understand? Just send telepathy. Telepathy I'm sorry... but can we take Mi Yeon out... for this game? (Yes, Mi Yeon was bad at games in other shows too) (Clumsy Mi Yeon) Let's practice once. Practice The keyword is 'SHINDONG GAYO' 'SHINDONG GAYO'. Give us the music (Let's go easy on the practice game) Dance~ then, I'll say 'one, two, three' 
and you guys will pose Okay, 'SHINDONG GAYO', 
one two three! FAIL! (Guys...It's just a practice game...) Take this unnie out~ Wow, this is really weird, 
how could Mi Yeon only pose differently? If the keyword is 'baseball' and if someone poses this way and others pose the other way, then it's a failure Do you understand? Now, this is the last time 
for you guys to discuss before starting Since words like this might come out, so Do everything right-sided! Right foot, right ear Ok ok I will present the first keyword The first keyword is in between you guys The keyword is 'So Yeon'. 
Please give us the music Don't talk to each other,
don't look at each other! So Yeon! Let's go, one, two, three (Every I-DLE thinks differently about So Yeon) FAIL! (Only Shuhua's Telepathy Success!) It's this! Charisma! (Relieved that they are not the only one to get it wrong) Wait, So Yeon, herself, did this pose
What is this pose? Charisma
We each have a pose that represents us Oh really? Can each of you show us the pose? 
What's your pose, Minnie? Dreamlike And Mi Yeon Maturity And charisma 
and Yuqi? I am cutie And Shuhua chic Soo Jin? Sexy Why are you guys so shy ~ Now, the second keyword Don't think too much I bet it's hard to not 'think too much' Second keyword! is 'SWIM' Ah swim ~ swimming! swimming! Give us the music! Okay! 'SWIM'
one, two, three (Two people match) (Diving pose)
(Swimming pose) (The oldest and the youngest member 
have good telepathy between them) FAIL! Hey!! Hey!! NO!
(Yuqi finally exploded) It's not just me! Oh my Now you guys failed twice, so you guys can now take only 4 sections out of the 6 sections Let's try to take at least one Let's pose center-based and when you need one side, like 'SHINDONG GAYO', let's go for the right side So, if you need one hand only, use one hand~ This is swimming Isn't this right? You did this too? okay! But, Minnie, do you know what was funny? You posed like this and then (sliding) (Looking around and lowering her arm) her hand keeps going forward and on You should have strong self-assertion Now, for the 3rd try. What will be the key word this time Ah, this is easy The keyword is 'Fighting'.
Please play the music (Dancing with confidence) (We'll succeed this time, right?) Can you guys succeed this time? 'Fighting'
one two three! (Cute fighting) (Strong fighting) (Both hands fighting) FAIL (Minnie X Miyeon, perfect game ruiner duo) No, I thought we were supposed to be center-based,
so I held both hands up Unnie, you guys can do a unit group Please decide well Next time, we're going with right side no matter what Don't use left side! 
Left side is paralyzed! It's anesthetized I'll give you a chance. 
This is a easy one I'll give you an easy one I'll give you a keyword that needs one hand, 
next word is 'Lion', please give us the music I said one hand. I don't know.
You can use both hands~ 'Lion' 
one, two, three 'Lion' 
one, two, three FAIL! (I've made a big big mistake) What did you do? I'll buy them with my own money (Didn't see her putting her left arm down) I raised both hands up This is how she did it.
Mi Yeon. One, two, three When everyone did this She's starting to get annoyed at herself right now Okay, if Mi Yeon keep doing this, 
this going to be scolded at later, so I will give you guys another chance.
I'll give you guys to try without Mi Yeon Wow, thank you
(She, herself, is most excited) Now, Mi Yeon, please come over here Mi Yeon, please come over here Okay, let's go
The keyword is 'Swag' Please give us the music! Mi Yeon, could you also give it a go, just for fun Mi Yeon, could you also give it a go, just in case Success! (Finally, Mi Yeon also succeeded!) (Quietly did her 'SWAG' at the side) You guys succeeded as Mi Yeon got out Just to tell you guys, I told Mi Yeon to give it a try 
and she said 'Yes' and did this You guys take one section. 
Which section do you guys choose? Snack, snack.
Ramen is too much But, don't we have one more chance left? Yes, there's one more try left Unnie, you're going to be out again Don't, please don't First, tell us what you guys have chosen So, you guys choose snacks? Okay, you guys first chose snacks.
You guys are the ones that took the least foods Then, I'll give you a suggestion We'll let you have all of the rest 5 sections.
But, you have to let Mi Yeon in Without Mi Yeon, you guys can get one section
With Mi Yeon, you guys can have all 5 sections Ok ok Paralyzed Paralyzed, it's paralyzed I'll also give you guys a hint
Since you guys are going for all 5 sections I'll give you a keyword with 4 letters OH MY GOD? It's four letters
(Listening) OH MY GOD's point is this One hand! One hand! no matter what right hand Always right hand! I'll give you the keyword!
The word is 4 letteres 'OH MY GOD'
Please give us the music (Can they succeed this time?) Please dance
I'll see whether you guys are wrong or not Put one hand down, down, down Okay. One, two, three Wait, I'll be super strict this time Okay, 'OH MY GOD'
last game SUCCESS~ (Good job, good job) Now, we'll give you guys all the food You guys can take all of them
You guys have to take them by yourself Sweep everything It's fun to sweep them Whoa, they are really taking everything (Mi Yeon finally regained her energy) Okay, now you guys have packed all the foods Wow, it ’s so crazy 
how you guys emptied the shelves like that Lastly, I will sprinkle the flower petals for your way out SHINDONG GAYO with I-DLE~ Just walk on the flower path only, you guys~ Thank you, goodbye Congratulations, goodbye SHINDONG GAYO with I-DLE 