"The Universe," informally, means "everything
there is" - mountains and oceans and the moon and hot nuclear balls of hydrogen and a whole
lot more. But if the Universe is "everything", does
that mean it includes the things that we don't know that we don't know exist? Or even the things that we believe exist but
haven't yet seen or observed? For example, is the future a part of the universe? In physics, we usually distinguish between
these two notions of universe as 1) the "observable universe," which is everything whose existence
we've thus far been able to confirm or observe, and 2) "The Universe" with a capital U, or,
"The Whole Universe," which is everything that exists, has existed, or will exist, any
time, anywhere, regardless of whether or not we're aware of it yet (or ever will be). Of course, the main reason for this distinction
is so that we can talk scientifically about parts of the universe we haven't yet been
able to observe, and the two biggest reasons we might not have been able to observe a piece
of the universe yet are either it's in the future or it's so far away that light from
it hasn't had time to reach us - yet. To explain: as far as we know, the universe
had a beginning and is now around 13.8 billion years old. Light takes time to travel through space,
so anywhere too far away from us just isn't visible yet in the same way that thunder from
a distant lightning strike isn't audible - until you wait long enough. If you were blind, the thunder would be the
first sign you have of the storm's existence, though once you hear it, you can infer that
the storm must have existed all along. So within the observable universe, what do
we know "exists"? Pretty much just three things: spacetime,
particles, and the physical laws that describe how spacetime and those particles interact
to give rise to gravity and matter and forces and everything else. It's open for debate whether or not mathematics
is a part of the universe or if it exists "outside" the universe in some sort of mathematical
heavens - but if you think that mathematics exists and if The Universe is everything that
exists, then, well... I'll leave that up to you. There's one other thing, though - you may
have heard of parallel universes, or "Multiverses," an idea proposed by researchers or sci-fi
fanatics that perhaps what we think of as The Universe is actually just a small piece
of a larger thing which is really "everything there is"... but that's anotherverse in the
story. 