- This is my first
interaction with a cheetah. Hi buddy, this is either gonna
go really well or really bad. (deep purring) For the various
non-predatory animals, that call the South
African savanna home, survival is no walk in the park. Roaming giants such
as the elephant depend on their massive size
and intimidating presence to keep out of the
predators' sites, while smaller hoof
stock like the impala depend on their speed
and cunning agility to escape the jaws
and claws of doom. Yet size and speed are no
guarantee that you will survive, as this wild place is a
constant circle of life, where every single day,
there's a good chance, that you or someone you
know will be hunted. Survival sounds (roaring) and likely is terrifying, as hidden within the
tall, golden grasses, silent predators are constantly
stalking within the shadows and if you aren't careful, you may find yourself
in the wrong place and ultimately at the
wrong dinner table. Today we are visiting the
Kragga Kamma Game Park, an easily accessible and
secure stretch of wilderness located in the Eastern Cape, that is home to a
variety of African icons, but most notably the cheetah, these beautiful cats,
despite their calm demeanor are considered to
be perfect predators and their lethal attack comes with a combination
of stealth and speed. (deep purring) Since childhood, I
have adored cheetahs, so much so, that I even dressed
up as one for Halloween. See those distinct eye stripes? My field marks were on point. As an adult, getting up close
with one of these speedy cats for the Brave Wilderness channel has always been a top priority, so today I'm going to
be given the chance to work alongside Terri,
a cheetah conservationist and with her help,
I'm going to have an incredibly special
encounter with Monty. - [Mark] Alright
Coyote, are you ready? - I don't know if
you can ever be ready to enter an
enclosure with a cat. Now I've palled
around with a bobcat and also you guys have certainly
seen the ocelot episode, but today's the first
time we're getting to work with an official big cat, the smallest of the
big cats, the cheetah and I have loved cheetahs
ever since I was a little kid and this is the first time I'm ever gonna get
to interact with one, so I'm a little nervous, hopefully it will
acclimate to me quickly and we'll have a
good interaction, but the cameras are
fired up and ready to go and I see Terri
signaling that it is time to enter the cheetah enclosure, you guys ready for this?
- Let's do it. - Here we go. (deep purring) Gosh, listen to that purring, wow. Look at you. Full grown, right? - He's fully grown.
- Monty is full grown, now can I approach Monty? - You can approach him.
- Okay. - [Terri] Just come
by and pet him. - This is my first
interaction with a cheetah. Hi buddy, this is either gonna
go really well or really bad. Let's see, hi. (deep purring) How are you? Whoa. Gosh, guys, can you hear that purring? I'm sure the camera
can pick it up. Look at his whole
throat is vibrating. Alright, well, do
you think that we can bring Monty down
here into the open - Sure.
- and see if he will come up on that log for us? - We could try.
- Nervous, (laughs) this is so cool. - Come, boy.
- Alright. - Come on, teeker.
- Wow. - [Terri] Come on here. - I'll tell you this much,
you get that close to a cat, once you enter through the fence and you're on this side with it, my heart's racing right
now, it's very intimidating. Keep in mind, like I said, this is the smallest
of the big cats and still look how
large this animal is, a perfectly designed predator, we'll get into more
of that in a second, but let's transition Monty
over here out into the open. We're inside of his
enclosure right now, this is his domain, right now, Mario is
about to make contact. Look at this. (deep purring) (light melodic music) - The real goal in this
moment is just for Monty to get acclimated to
myself, to Mark, to Mario, to realize there's cameras
inside of his enclosure. Here he comes, hi Monty. The thing that's so
cool about this cat is the length of its legs,
perfectly designed predator and designed for speed,
that's the first thing I really wanna take a look at, as we know, cheetahs are
the fastest land predator, look at the size of
the paws, big paws, look at those paws, look at that and the claws don't
fully retract, now they use those
claws like cleats and that will actually
help the cheetah to gain traction as
it springs into action after anything that it's
going to try to catch. - [Mark] So is this at all
intimidating to you, Coyote? - Yeah, you know, it's tough
to get completely comfortable next to a cat of this size, but as long as Monty
is purring like that, Terri tells me that he is
content and feeling really good and I saw Terri doing this, scratching the sides of his
head, oh, okay, maybe not yet. Alright, Monty's heading
in this direction over into the shade,
let's follow him. (light melodic music) - [Mark] So Coyote, what
does the coat feel like? - It is very dense, the fur up
on top of the head is bristly and on its haunches,
it kind of feels like the fur of a buffalo and then it's much more sleek running down the
side of the animal, you can see how streamlined
this creature is, obviously perfectly
designed for speed, (deep purring) cheetah speed. - Oh.
- Oh, flick you with the tail. - I got whacked
with the tail there. Monty, can I analyze
your tail real quick? Let's see what happens. - Oh.
- Oh, look at that. - [Mark] Sure can, there you go. - That is a long
tail right there, rather heavy too. I like how Monty decides that
once we try to get a shot, he's gonna flop
over on this side, so he gives you, which
is actually kinda cool, we wanna look at some of
the design of Monty's coat, cheetahs are so iconic
for their spots, which allow them to
perfectly camouflage in all of the tall grasses, so it's a mix of light and
shadow that allows them to hide, as they're stalking their prey. Look at these little ears, they have a great sense of
hearing, great eyesight, now, it's a diurnal species, they primarily
hunt during the day and if you take a good
look at Monty's eyes there, look at how big they are,
they have incredible vision, that allows them to see prey
from extensive distances and then they can
slowly stalk in and prepare to
ambush and attack. - [Mark] So Coyote, is a
cheetah similar to a lion, where it's in a pride
or is it like a tiger, where it's a solo animal? - Oh, that's a great question, what most people don't
realize is that cheetahs, females specifically
are mostly solitary, unless they have cubs, but
when it comes to males, a group of cheetahs
is called a coalition, so oftentimes you'll see
two or three brothers hanging out together, but the
females, primarily solitary, unless it's during breeding
season or if they have cubs. It is almost time for lunch and what's really cool is
that Terri's gonna allow us to stay inside the enclosure,
while Monty has his lunch, you guys wanna get some
cool shots of that? - [Mark] Do we get lunch after? - If you like horse meat, then yes, you can
also have some lunch. - [Mark] I was thinking
like a sandwich. - Yeah, a sandwich is
probably a better idea, huh? - [Mark] Alright,
let's go watch Monty. - Let's feed Monty. Out of all the animals
that we have featured on this channel eating, I think this is probably
gonna be the largest predator, this, this is the
real deal right here. That is awesome and just like all big cats,
they chew from the side, they actually use their
large canine teeth to inflict the kill, it's
almost like scissors, the way that they have to cut
the meat apart into chunks, then swallow it down whole. Whoa, oh, the sound of those jaws just crushing through
that meat's incredible. - [Mark] So you could never
do this with a wild cat? - No, you would
never get this close to a cheetah in the
wild regardless, but you know, Monty is so
used to being around humans, it's okay for me to be this
close to him, while he's eating and when cheetahs are out in
the wild and they get a kill, they will oftentimes
eat as much as they can, they have a lot of competition
out there in the grasslands, hyenas will come in and
steal away their food, lions will chase
them off the kill, so once you get
something to eat, you take advantage
of that moment and chomp down as
much as you can. - [Mark] And after this, Monty's probably gonna
what, take a nap? - Take a nap and then a
meaty poop, I would guess. Alright buddy, yeah,
you're such a good cat. He seems to be comfortable
with me at this point. - [Mark] God, you're really
close to each other. (laughs) - That's really close to
a cheetah right there, real close to the kill zone too. (deep purring) I think Monty is pretty
comfortable with us though at this point. Well, that's pretty cool,
getting face to face with the speediest cat
here in South Africa, the one and only cheetah. I'm Coyote Peterson, be brave, stay wild. We'll see you on
the next adventure. (light orchestral music) The Kragga Kamma
Game Park is home to a wonderful cheetah
conservation program and it's animal
ambassadors like Monty, that are helping to educate
the public about these cats and the importance of
preserving their futures. When I look back on my time
spent working alongside Monty, it's hard to describe in words what it feels like to make
contact with a cheetah, here is this animal,
that I loved as a kid and I'm now face to
face with as an adult, it was truly a dream
come full circle, that took me over 30
years to accomplish and in those final moments, as
I said my goodbyes to Monty, I felt my inner child smile, knowing that cheetahs are
just as perfect in real life as they always had
been in my dreams. If you love cheetahs
as much as I do, then you are going to love the new limited edition
Chill Cheetah T-shirt, that just arrived in the
Brave Wilderness store, speed over as fast as
you can to check out this and all the other new
products we just released. Hey Coyote Pack, I have
some exciting news. I am proud to announce
that the crew and I are headed back on tour
with Brave Wilderness Live, our next shows take
place in the Midwest, tickets can be purchased at
the Brave Wilderness website and these shows are
certain to sell out, so make sure that you
reserve your seats today and don't forget, subscribe,
so you can join me and the crew on our next big adventure. (cheering audience) I'm Coyote Peterson, be brave. - [Audience] Stay wild! (light jungle music) 