“The last thing you’re
ever going to see is a Stark smiling down
at you as you die.” Arya Stark is a master of death
on ‘Game of Thrones’. “Valar morghulis.” Her young life is shaped by it,
her father is executed, she can’t save her other family members
from gruesome murders, and she responds by learning
the art of killing from the pros. “Who taught you how to do that?” “No one.” As Arya comes into her own,
she develops a real bloodlust. “Nothing makes you happy.” “Lots of things make me happy.” “Like what?” “Killing Polliver,
killing Rorge.” She becomes an agent of retribution, “Winter came for House Frey.” before finally facing off
with death itself, and living through
the decimation of King’s Landing with a renewed sense of purpose. Arya’s series-long dance with death
teaches us many important lessons: about how to cultivate resilience,
study the things that hurt us, escape self-destructive hatred,
and what it means, ultimately, to fight for the side of life. So click the link in the description below
to sign up now. Game of Thrones is a show
permeated by death and this is nowhere more apparent
than in Arya’s story. Her coming of age is an experience
in watching her family be hunted down. “Her mother's dead. Her father's dead. Her brother's dead. Winterfell is a pile of rubble.” Think back to the scene in Season One
where Ned is executed: aside from him,
the focus of this scene is Arya. We’re made to feel
her confusion and terror in this life-changing moment,
as her father, the strongest person she knows,
is killed on a whim. So while before this
she enjoys swordplay as sport, what starts her down
the road to becoming a killer is the realization that those in power
are killing for the wrong reasons. “Bring me his head.” This is something that
already deeply disturbed her when the Lannisters
murdered her friend Mycah. “The butcher's boy. My friend. He was 12 years old. He was unarmed.” But the death of her father
crystallizes her sense of purpose: taking down the evil people who rule. In Season Two,
Arya can’t sleep because she’s haunted by
the memory of Ned’s death – so Yoren tells her about how he used to
repeat the name of his brother’s killer until he finally got to slay the man. “It got to the point
where I would say his name every night before I went to bed. ‘Willem. Willem.’ A prayer almost.” Yoren then sarcastically says: “That'll help you sleep, eh?” Yet, as Arya goes on to adopt
this practice as her own, “Joffrey, Cersei, Walder Frey…” it does help her sleep. “I can't sleep until I say the names.” Her kill list becomes
a mantra that grants her peace and gives her the fuel to keep going. It’s a way for her to take back power
in this world that’s so disempowered her. “So you're sad because you didn't
get to kill Joffrey yourself. Is that it?” “At least I could have
been there to watch. I wanted to see the look in his eyes
when he knew it was over.” Part of the sting of Ned’s death is that
Arya is so close, yet powerless to stop it – and this tragedy is
repeated in Season Three when she arrives moments too late to see her mother and her brother Robb
at the Red Wedding. “It’s too late.” Murder destroys Arya’s family,
but as she becomes a killer, she takes control of this fatal force
and is empowered by it. So she represents the power of using
the thing that has hurt you as a weapon. “I know Death. He's got many faces. I look forward to seeing this one.” In our own lives,
our instinct might be to distance ourselves
from the things that hurt us – but through the surviving Stark children
we see that we need to invite them in. Bran loses the use of his legs
only to discover his abilities as a warg, “You’ll never walk again,
but you will fly.” Sansa’s suffering makes
her one of the smartest characters
in the seven kingdoms, “She’s the smartest person I’ve ever
met.” and Arya turns the death
that she can’t escape into her own superpower. “The Red God is the one true god.” “He's not my one true god.” “No? Who's yours?” “Death.” [music playing] Arya, the student of death,
enjoys the tutelage of a variety of teachers over the course of the show. “Syrio says every hurt is a lesson
and every lesson makes you better.” She soaks up her lessons like a sponge, but like the best of students,
she also thinks for herself – keeping what’s useful and letting go
of what she doesn’t agree with. Arya’s first teacher is Syrio Forel. “Who are you?” “Your dancing master.” Warm, good-humored Syrio teaches Arya
to enjoy swordplay as an art, favoring a fighting style
that’s all about grace. “He says every swordsman
should study cats. They're as quiet as shadows
and as light as feathers.” His emphasis on delicacy
and precision allows her to see the hidden advantage
in her small size. “You are skinny,
that is good! The target is small.” In their last moments together,
as he defends himself against Ser Meryn Trant
with only a wooden sword, Syrio’s gutsiness in the face of death
stays with his student, “What do we say
to the god of death?” “Not today.” as we see when Melisandre
calls on Syrio’s words to prepare Arya for her own
‘against all odds’ moment. “What do we say
to the god of death?” “Not today.” Next Arya gets to know Jaqen H’ghar,
one of the Faceless Men of Braavos. “Only death may pay for life.” As a reward for her saving his life,
he offers to kill any three people. This experience is
the first time she recognizes that death can be
the solution to her problems. “But he's going to tell Tywin. He's getting away. It has to be now.” In Season Three when Arya is taken in
by the Brotherhood Without Banners, they show her it’s viable to take justice
into one’s own hands – which is exactly what she wants to do. But the men of the Brotherhood make
moral concessions for the greater good, which Arya can’t accept. “I'm a hostage and
you're selling me.” “Don't think of it that way.” “But it is that way.” So she rejects this aspect
of their philosophy, doubling down on
her determination not to compromise in her quest for justice. Arguably her most formative teacher
is her next captor and protector: the Hound, who shapes her into a killer. “That's where the heart is.” While she thinks she hates him
for most of their travels together, her fellow lone wolf
the Hound is one of the few people who can
truly understand this girl. “I don’t like crowds.” “Me neither.” He, too, has been shaped by trauma
and is fueled by anger. “Hate's as good a thing as any
to keep a person going. Better than most.” “Sometimes anger makes people
do unfortunate things.” “Sometimes fear makes them
do unfortunate things. I'll go with anger.” The Hound gives Arya free reign
to express her rage and act on her violent impulses. “Is that the first man you've killed?” “The first man.” “Next time you're going to do
something like that, tell me first.” Over time, she adopts
his stone-cold veneer, masking the more
sensitive person underneath. “You're a cold little b**ch,
aren't you? Guess that's why you're still alive.” And he 
pushes her to adopt a realistic view of this gritty world. “I just understand the way things are. How many Starks they got to behead
before you figure it out?” But Arya rejects
the Hound’s total cynicism, as she still clings to
the importance of harming only those who deserve it. “He took us in. He fed us and you--” “Aye, he took us in. He's a good man,
his daughter makes a nice stew, nd they'll both be dead come winter.” When Arya reunites with Jaqen
at the House of Black and White in Season Five, the Faceless Men train her in
the psychological skills of expert killing. She learns to lie, “I'm the youngest daughter
of a great lord, Eddard Stark. He died in battle.” “A lie.” to fight while blind, and to take faces. Yet Arya cannot accept the amorality
that defines the Faceless Men. In Season Two,
mysterious Jaqen seems almost like a genie who is granting wishes, “I can name anyone
and you'll kill him?” “A man has said.” and this too-good-to-be-true experience
is part of how Arya firsts falls for death, as an exciting way-out
she can use to feel better. “Show me how. I want to be able to do it too.” But as we learn more
about the Faceless Men, we see the darker side of Jaqen’s offer, and the work the Faceless Men do
as assassins who don’t ask questions. Arya herself can’t become a contract killer. “Who wants her dead?” “That does not matter.” What drives her as a killer is a deeply
personal and emotional aim – to avenge her loved ones. “A girl has taken a life. The wrong life.” Her first real kill is a crime of passion, brought on by hearing
one of the Frey’s soldiers bragging about the Red Wedding. “None of the Starks had much to say
about the end of that meal. I'll tell you what, though, the hardest thing was getting that wolf's head
to stay on the body.” Arya can’t let go of the fierce love
that’s at the heart of who she is. “He was my friend.” “No, he wasn't. Didn't you listen to him?” “He was no one.” But the biggest barrier between
her and the Faceless Men is that she can’t efface
her strong sense of self. “Finally a girl is no one.” “A girl is Arya Stark of Winterfell.” As she reclaims Needle,
the sword she couldn’t bring herself to throw away
and which reflects her own slim and dainty
yet deadly personality – Arya leaves the Faceless Men armed with
the formidable practical know-how of killing. But she leaves behind their
impersonal philosophy of death, which it never really seemed possible
that she could adopt, given what she’s lived through
and the individual she is. On top of taking from
all these teachers, Arya learns a thing or two
from her enemies. When she’s Tywin Lannister’s
cupbearer in Season Two, she gets insight into the mental skills that have made Tywin a seasoned general
and ice-cold killer of masses. Tywin respects intelligence,
which is why he takes an interest in Arya. “You're too smart for your own good. Has anyone told you that?” “Yes.” He spends his days
plotting from a tower, showing her that being smart,
strategic and thorough – and drawing on historical knowledge –
is the way to win a war. He’s extremely perceptive, as shown in how,
unlike most others, he quickly picks up that Arya is a girl, “This one's a girl, you idiot,
dressed as a boy.” and a highborn one at that. “Lowborn girls say ‘m'lord,’
not ‘my lord.’ If you're going to pose as a commoner,
you should do it properly.” So Arya comes away
from this experience understanding the importance
of reading people to decipher what they’re hiding – something she later
becomes very adept at. “You are scared the Northern lords will
read it. They wouldn’t think much of Lady Sansa
if they knew how she did Cersei's bidding.” Each of Arya’s teachers
helps her hone the skills she needs to become an expert killer. But even more importantly, their wide-ranging
and nuanced relationships to death help her clarify what
she truly feels and believes about the morality and purpose of killing. [music playing] Arya’s style as a killer is
very much a correction to the cavalier violence
she witnesses in King’s Landing. Her executions are precise,
deeply thought-out, and most of all, they have
a sense of poetic justice. “Something wrong with your leg, boy?” She lulls House Frey into
a false sense of security before murdering them, mirroring the way the Red Wedding
violated Westeros’ sacred ‘guest right’. “Slaughtered your guests
after inviting them into your home.” She even makes Walder Frey feel the horror
of having eaten his own children, “They’re already here, my lord.” before slitting his throat –
just as her mother Catelyn had to watch Robb murdered in front of her
before her throat was cut. She kills Littlefinger with
the knife that he used to start the War of the Five Kings, “You told our mother this knife
belonged to Tyrion Lannister. But that was another one of your lies.” Arya reminds her victims of what they did
before she kills them, “He told me he'd f**k me
bloody with a stick.” so that they’re thinking about
their misdeeds when they die. In this world that is so lacking in justice,
she becomes an agent of retribution, like a goddess of punishment
visiting sinners. “He on your little list?” “He can't be. I don't know his name.” “What’s your name.” Her lethal nature guided by
her strict individualistic moral code might even remind us
of Omar on The Wire – who likewise responds to
Baltimore’s drug kingpins destroying the community
by inflicting his own justice. In the end, Arya could never
have become a Faceless Man because they serve Death,
whom they call the Many-Faced God. But the contradiction of Arya is that
she’s a killer who fights for life. This is why it feels right that she is the
one to take out the Night King. Some questioned why she was
the one to slay death itself. This triumph has always been
in the cards for her, “Blue eyes. Eyes you'll shut forever.” the embodiment of death
could only be taken down by this girl who has danced
with death her whole life, and come to understand it
as no other character does. “For, oh god, I think it’s maybe
three years now or something, we’ve known that it was gonna be
Arya who delivers that fatal blow.” Arya’s purpose is thrown
into relief even more in the penultimate episode of the series, when Daenerys’ rampage
of King’s Landing makes Arya confront
the cost of giving into hatred. Arya has come there hellbent
on crossing a key name off her kill list, “I'm going to kill Queen Cersei.” but the Hound gives her
one final lesson, urging her not to follow him
in this important way. “You think you wanted revenge a long time? I've been after it all my life. And look at me. Look at me! You want to be like me?” So she turns back from making
vengeance her life’s purpose – and instead tries to protect
the innocent civilians around her. “You have to keep moving.” The end of the episode shows her meeting
another survivor of this apocalypse – a white horse. In the Bible’s ‘Book of Revelation’,
the four horsemen of the apocalypse all have different horses,
with Death riding a pale horse – so this scene could be
getting at how Arya is Death, riding to deliver its divine judgment. The retribution she’s
now capable of delivering feels righteous, on a higher,
more sacred level than personal revenge. She is violent justice embodied. From the beginning,
Arya is a fierce individual. “You will marry a high lord
and rule his castle. And your sons shall be knights
and princes and lords.” “No. That's not me.” She understands early on
that her nature is at odds with the unwritten rules
of her society. “I was never going to be
as good a lady as you. So I had to be something else.” Just listen to her recount
this memory of her father watching her use a bow and arrow: “I knew what I was doing
was against the rules but he was smiling,
so I knew wasn't wrong. The rules were wrong.” So Arya develops
an instinctive understanding that breaking certain rules is right – and through a mix of rebellion
and self-determination, she writes her own rulebook, relying on her own instincts as she goes. “If you only trust the people you grew up
with, you won't make many allies.” “That's alright. I don't need many allies.” The image of Arya with the white horse
is also a symbol of survival. Just as this beautiful animal
is somehow still standing, Arya – in spite of all she’s endured –
has miraculously escaped the fate of the all-consuming hatred that has
poisoned so many around her who can’t stop themselves from continuing
the cycle of suffering and rage. Arya’s will to survive and
her devotion to the side of life make her a beacon of hope
on this death-saturated show – as beautiful and awe-inspiring as this
improbable white horse riding through the burning rubble. So this young woman
is a model of resilience. When we’re going through
our hardest times, which probably don’t equal
what she’s been through, we can learn from
the enormous inner strength she draws on,
how she trusts herself, saves herself and doubles down on what she knows
in her bones is true and just. Like Arya, we have to become masters
of the painful things in our lives, until eventually, we can beat them
at their own game. “It must have felt good
sticking a knife in that horned f**ker.” “Felt better than dying.” 