Where do you think we are? [Chaeryeong] ! She just said it What are you going to say your charm is? What do you think you're good at
compared to the other members? (Wide)
Smiling with teeth [Chaeryeong] Why do you keep
acting all flirty to me? (Shocked) Did you... just hear that?
(Unbelievable) (Teasing the youngest)
Why are you treating her differently? What's going on here?
Why have you changed so much? What do you mean? (This is ,
a battlefield of flirts) (Does her best when teasing someone) (What's happening?) They've changed [Yeji] We want to see Yuna flirting I find Yuna so cute these days I just... have a smile on my face
whenever she does something (Ryujin keeps teasing Yuna) (Why me?!) Geez! She's totally... (Smirk) You're like a kid [Chaeryeong] Ryujin's become
playful these days [Chaeryeong] Really She's unbelievable She goes on and on in the practice room (Ryujin has changed)
She wasn't always like this Check Sound check Sound check, check Check it out [Chaeryeong] Oh, Ryujin... Why? Chaeryeong keeps doing that (Checking the script before the show!) It's a space hopper that kids play with (Shocked by the record)
108 times in one minute (OMG) (No way) Oh! So can we strategize? It takes time to roll these I think it'll be okay (Strangely confident) I can't even finish one in a second You can We can look for the other one
like multitasking! !@$#!@$!$!! (Attempting the practice game!)
We're doing a Kkinness Challenge, right? And we're trying to break this record Sorting socks! Well, VJ Lia Chaeryeong will do the practice round [Lia] Are you confident? YES I CAN Let's begin right away Okay Ready Go! Now-- Guys, I can't do this [Lia] Your hands do seem a bit slow (Sudden confession)
I know, that's why I can't play the piano More than half the time has passed (Bounce) (Bounce) (Bounce) [Lia] Everyone! You've succeeded in sorting
eight socks on your first try (Warm-hearted MC Lia)
I hope you go on the Guinness Book Records Yuna, you try it This is just-- (Cocky) Film her being so cocky This is just what? This is just... Is it all about the feeling? Just... Just a feeling~ Do you want the case here or there? (Cocky)
Wherever Go! Why does she seem so slow?
(Ruthless) Wait This does make you nervous [Chaeryeong] The hands [Chaeryeong] don't work well
when you're nervous I'm running out of breath But I think I did better than Chaeryeong Now, did Chaeryeong do eight? How many was it? I did eight Eight in total! Six, eight... Yep, it's a tie (Result from the FEEL: 8) (Bright) [Chaeryeong] We're on the same team! Okay, ! Let's do it! Here we go! (Their passionate chant
before the challenge LOL)  You can't help but get competitive We'll treat you to 200 cups of coffee
(Well?) (Cocky Ryujin caught on camera) (Are you filming me right now?) (Staring) (Hello, woof) I want to give it a name Your name is 'Bass' (Q. Why did you name it 'Bass'?) I got an inspiration If you don't like it... then Frank maybe? (Thanks, woof) And my dogs, Chaeri and Chaeso I miss you so much Reminds you of
, huh? (Championship vibe)
The hairstyle and... A bright styling! What's in my locker? There are firecrackers My school didn't have lockers like these Yeah, ours was made out of wood Ours, too And they were only half as big Guys from the basketball team would... ( shooting begins!)
Let us introduce ourselves! ALL IN US! Hello, we're ITZY!
Nice to meet you (Bubbly) We're all very competitive I'm about to break a sweat Give us a cute smile and call out 'MIDZY' Three, two, one! MIDZY (Got real quiet real fast) (Three seconds to Yuna's signature smile)
Three, two, one! Yuna (Silence) [Ryujin] I've never seen teeth like that [Yeji] I've never seen such shiny teeth (World record-holders at teasing Yuna)
How could you?! [Lia] Why? (Playing dumb) [Ryujin] I was really surprised
You looked gorgeous (How did Ryujin do on her
space hopper challenge?!) The result! (Heart beating) One hundred... and eight! (Ryujin tied the world record!) (Great job, Ryujin♥) (Everyone giving her a hug LOL) That was amazing Ryujin's now on the Kkinness World Records As first place! Oh? No way Did you come to interview
the Guinness World Record-holder? (Record-holder at being cheeky) (Q. What would you name the space hopper?)
It's red Honghong (Simple)
(※Hong: means 'red' in Korean) I spent a record-breaking day
with Honghong Oh! Wait! This guy likes people (How to train a space hopper.mp4) Sit Good boy (Proud) (★Awarding the Guinness World Records★) The world record certificate
goes to Ryujin from ITZY! Record for 'Space-hopping for one minute' I'd like to thank MIDZY for their support and  for giving me
this wonderful opportunity Please have us on the show again, and
we'll also do our best to promote  We'd like to say goodbye We were ITZY! Thank you very much! (Ending with ITZY's chant!)
ITZY! KKINNESS! WANNABE! WHOO! (ITZY's reaction footage!) [PD] Go! Uh-yi! (A rather clear enunciation) () [PD] Go, ITZY, go! (Go!) (GO!)
Go! () Yes! (Yeji bringing happiness to all) [Lia] Hey, Ryujin! Show us [PD] Go! Go [PD] The Kkinness Challenge signature pose Wow (Tad tricky) (Yuna's reaction making them feel better) [PD] Okay, you succeeded! (Sigh... I'm proud of myself... Cheers★) [PD] A cocky reaction LOL (Finds the camera) (ZOOM) (You're now seeing hyper Ryujin) One and only MIDZY One and only MIDZY (And lastly, shooting the group dance!) (Bright) (Bubbly) (Cheerful) (ITZY's energy that makes people smile♥) (ITZY's dance break in sweatpants) (Perfect synchronization) (Perfect and clean finish♥) Thank you so much! We were ITZY! Thank you, everyone! Go, ! Go, ! Go, ITZY! (Hope Song at Noon, MBC RADIO) We're waiting to go on  And we... - We are here
- ...are here! We're going to do our best and have fun! (Chaeryeong is reading the script!) What I like about going on the radio is that we can show you guys a different side of ourselves Three, two! ALL IN US! Hello, we're ITZY!
Nice to meet you! (The show begins!)
Could you do it in Unpretty Rapstar vibe? Okay, I'll try Get in the  (Their first radio schedule is done!)
We were ITZY! Thank you! Goodbye Thank you so much! (Love Game, SBS RADIO)
ALL IN US! We're ITZY! Nice to meet you! This is our second
radio schedule for the day Today's our radio day! We're waiting to go on
Park So-hyun's  This was our first radio schedule
for the  promotion So I'm very happy to be back here And I was really touched
when I went over to say hello Thank you We'll try to do a good job! I didn't get to listen to
a lot of radio growing up And now that we're on radio shows I think I'd listen to a lot of radio
if I were to go back in time Morning radio lets you start the day
feeling refreshed And evening radio helps you
wrap up your day So I think it's really nice (Off to do their second radio schedule!) (Done with their second schedule!) (Turn Up the Volume, KBS RADIO) We just went on  and have come to go on
 Wassup, YO, sound check Today is the radio day Doing radio shows are so fun Time flies really fast So after like an hour, I'm like "It's over already?" (Yuna, the poet!)
Purer than anyone 'Purer than anyone' Five syllables Oh, right 'Chaeryeong's bright and shiny eyes' Wow ALL IN US! Hello, we're ITZY!
Nice to meet you! (Third and last radio schedule
) I'm the stage expert, Yeji! I'm the youngest on top, Yuna! Let us say hello! Three, two! ALL IN US! Hello, we're ITZY! (ITZY singing  live!) Thank you so much, MIDZY
for tuning in today Thank you! I hope the listeners had a good day today Good night Thank you so much We had radio schedules for the whole day and it was really fun Today's also our 400th day
anniversary, right? Yeah We worked really hard today It was our 400th day And we got to spend it with
so many nice people and MIDZY on the radio So today was a great day! It was meaningful! I hope MIDZY could listen to
our voice and feel better Lastly, ITZY! Let's do 'ITZY, MIDZY, let's fly' today When someone says 'good job,'
let's all say 'ITZY, MIDZY, let's fly' The youngest should say it You'll be giving us all a pat on the back Fine! (Made up her mind) Good job! ITZY, MIDZY, let's fly! 