IU has started following Post Malone Post Malone achieved success now She's acknowledged by Post Malon indeed I found out that Post Malone 
was younger than me Hello, this is IU in Look Me Up I'll start searching for name
on SNS from now (namu.wiki) (IU) Lee Ji-eun The place of my residence 
is also shown here (the mouse cursor lost its path) (IU got speechless) I think I should move Ah, I'm sweating because I'm embarrassed Ah, this one is wrong It's Kwangjin Middle School, 
followed by Shingok and Eonjoo middle schools Kwangjin Middle School is
where I had the most memory Wow, it's been 4249 days
after my debut Such thing comes up as well IU is one of unusual K-POP 
singer-songwriters who's dominating the Korean music chart she has shown her own sincerity
which can't be found anywhere else How come the New York Times 
knows about me According to the Gaon survey in 2010,
she has an honor of achieving 1st place in accumulated 
streamings and downloads for her songs 1 billion? Wow, it's amazing indeed? It's known that she has failed 
in 20 auditions That's right I was a type of person
who really enjoyed participating auditions When I stood up in front of judges something hot came up from here and I really didn't care much
even if I was disqualified She showed her possession of a 
gigantic fandom which doesn't fall behind with other top girl groups in the late 2010 Our fandom is so gigantic (fandom-it's been separated with UAENA document)
Is it designated separately? Wow, this is so amazing The official fandom color is neon yellow However, it's precise color value (either Pantone color number, CMYK, or RGB, etc.)
is not known Do I have to publicize this 
kind of thing as well? Do other singers publicize it this way? Do you all publicize it? Let us publicize it as well then My pride is hurt Once you become IU's fan,
you'll be moved additionally - A fan of IU This person really posted this here
just like a famous saying by a famous figure Ah, these are so funny This photo shows that,
back in the time when I did MC in Inkigayo I had to say goodbye every
Sunday on my way home She also uniquely possesses the series of 'on the way home' 
photos of a celebrity DC Inside IU gallery Am I the first celebrity 
who posted an article in Daum Star Zone, Tell Zone? I think my fan wrote this one Every line has exaggerations (dlwlrma for showing off) She visited Kimje Women's High School
to participate in her fan's graduation ceremony on February 14, 2019 This fan asked me 'aren't you gonna do
School Attack?' so I asked her 'where is your school?'
and she said it's in Kimje Uh, there's a video of it as well Ah right, I showed up
as I sang 'Meaning of You' It was such a chaotic site As I see it like this, 
the reaction was really good Oh, they also chanted together I think the stage was one where
I tried hardest performing among BBIBBI stages This is a graduate from 
Kimje Women's High School who was on site She says 'for those students who prayed
wishes of getting the bouquet chocolate given by IU,
I'll give you body lotions and perfume' Such an accurate information
at the level of namu.wiki almost The OST of 'The Man from Nowhere'
composed by Kim Je-Hwi She was in charge of writing 
lyrics of  Personally, it's the lyrics within TOP 3 among the lyrics in my 
preference that I wrote Her own song 'Station' Since it's a very precious song,
before its official release she said she wanted to save it as much It's the song I really like, 'Station' I'd release this song for sure Where would it come out? First of all, I'm thinking of
releasing it in the next album Wow, why are there so many? There must be people 
who read all of them, right? (YouTube) The number of subscribers
reached 3.01 million It's over 3 million people now This one got already 620,000 people as well The fans were so cute They're the UAENA cafe gatekeepers All of them were really really cute Wow wow, is there a rap?
Is this a rap by Suga by any chance? I think I'm counting my chickens, but
which rap is there? Damn it.. You were scolded once
because you gained weight Ah, 'what you mean by I gained weight'? It comes out just by
typing 'what' I was told that I gained weight What you mean by you got weight This is really.. the top 3 tone in South Korea 1. a cursing madam
2. the sound of a barking dog 3. what you mean by you gained weight It means that this video became so 
popular that such many people know it The fan was so amazing, for real We're looking for the fan
to check out how's the life This was at Busan Concert,
maybe the fan lived in Busan I wonder how old the fan got by now Or what kind of job is the fan working Or whether the person is 
still my fan now, etc. I have so many things
I'm curious about I wish that the person is living well (HIPHOPLE) Where is this place? Why do I go in a hiphop website (hiphop IU collection) This person is UAENA though? I'm posting IU's collection IU is a real hiphop figure This one is hiphop (E SENS, Simon Dominic, IU, Taeyeon.jpg)
This is such a memory When Taeyeon was working as a
DJ at a radio show Me and Supreme Team 
members were the guests How come that is not a manipulated photo Wow, it's a combination
I can't see again no matter how many times I die 4 top of Korea's hiphop (found something) IU started to follow Post Malone now Yes After I was told that Post Malone has followed me and then I totally forgot about it My brother is studying abroad in U.S now I asked him, 'hey, who's the best 
figure in U.S these days?' and he said it's Post Malone I said 'I heard that Post Malone
has followed me, you know?' and then he went really wild, you know I also wanted to show off 
myself a little bit I pressed 'follow' in front of
the eyes of my brother Post Malone achieved a success Post Malone is acknowledged by IU I found that Post Malone 
was younger than me (dcinside) These people are funnier when
they don't talk about me But I found that the atmosphere
is changed a little bit these days I found that the people 
talked a lot about me though? Oh, IU eight got 1st place
in Phillippines Silt Devoutly, I'm taking a shower 
and coming back It's 51 minutes before 
releasing eight right now The gallery is quite complicated now Is she too amazing for Korea to tolerate.. Should we leave our IU now To where To where are you leaving me Right ah, this one is correct IU gallery does this really well, I found Also because I donated on 
the Children's Day Everyone is donating as well Although I'm a newbie who only
observes, I join with a small amount of money I can't leave her doing 
a good thing by herself Such a kind-hearted person indeed (theqoo.net) It's my first time entering here I guess it's a place where
people only talk about me? Hello, IU fans..! I'm a BTS fan I've heard RM before I heard that it's a complete drive song 
after people listened to it I've listened to it before You envy me, huh?
I've already listened to it I thought it was my song Since the work was proceeded so smoothly Good good We didn't actually exchange 
that much either I guess people could listen 
to it for so long He gave me such a big compliment I'm also listening to it quite often As Suga is saying here The work has proceeded really fast Without using our brains for too much time Suga sent me a strap as well I wrote the melody and sent him Really just working at it once like that? And then we recorded it right away I was so thankful I got immersed.. naturally.. I found there was a streaming for
the entire IU songs on Youtube, so I played them I read all namu.wiki,
really? I couldn't read all of it,
after looking at it for more than 1 hour The fans are reading this 
attentively, I see (instiz) IUxPark Seo Joon 'My Saeroi' fan video I've watched this one This one was really well made, you know? The editing was done so nicely Even the audio was all balance adjusted It was made as if it's a real drama I wonder what occupation 
does this person have I really wonder whether the person
wishes to work with us BTS concerts give out blankets,
and IU concerts give out cushions Wow, this one is so pretty, the blanket (Melon) (IU) (Lost And Found-IU)
This is my first debut album But I couldn't receive a huge reaction This facial expression I started promoting from this time? If it's 2008, I was 16 years old..
grade 9? At that time, I I remember that I was the maknae
among the singers who promoted themselves Me, Taemin of SHINee When IU debuted with the song ‘Mia’ 
and watched the first shoot, the song was so good that I even looked for the 
music video and listened to it Now, I feel good because she seems 
to be making better songs than before and being recognized by people Even though, I’m not a member of UAENA A sudden A big twist I wonder why you are not UAENA I pressed ‘Like’ Back then, I wanted to be popular.. but now I'm popular I couldn't even imagine at this time I thought this album was the last album (Growing Up-IU) No, people are still posting comments after they've listened to the old album It’s so mysterious It's amazing The UAENA left a comment 
on the day this album came out on the 11th anniversary 
special episode like this It's amazing
I got goose bumps I got 9th place at her first
fan signing event, and showed off myself a lot in the Cafe.. I want to see it again, look at this (IU..IM-IU) Since then, I think more and more 
people have come to know me Is it true that Zico 
was the one who rapped? Oh, right, this is 
Marshmellow's "Soft and Soft" that part was featured by Zico IU's voice as a child seemed 
to have lots of sadness The songwriters have talked about it a lot that a little friend's 
voice is full of sadness So the first time I stood in front of the 
recording studio microphone was a senior Baek Ji-young's guide vocal (Real-IU) This is the song 'Good Day' was born here which became known a lot Why do I look older now? That’s right This picture which is the album jacket This concept really made me cry I couldn't bear to look in the mirro Because the makeup and hair concept 
itself was too much But it worked (Last Fantasy-IU) Last Fantasy was composed and produced by my 
seniors who I really admire and like and it is still the best album 
that fans choose Why didn't you write it as masterpiece I wonder what kind of albums there are with the name masterpiece This song reminds me of my childhood When I heard this song on my dad's CD I used to close and open my eyes looking
at the window through my fingers You’re so cute When this song played, she looked 
at the window like this (Modern Times-IU) Like the last fantasy, it seems to be an album that was 
chosen as IU's early masterpiece Of course, the top of IU's regular album I can't believe there's more 
masterpiece than the Last Fantasy The Last Fantasy was really creepy, 
but it was a real shock Early fans are divided into two such as the Last Fantasy fan 
and the modern time fan 'A Gloomy Clock'.. was a song by Jonghyun I asked Jonghyun to give me the song 'A Gloomy Clock' It was his own song though He used to ask me 'try listening,
monitoring, and give me feedbacks' We used to do a lot of such thing There were many times 
when I asked him to give me feedbacks on my own song But as soon as I listened to 
this song, it was so good So I wondered if he could 
give this song to me But since he gave it to me 
without a hesitation I'm still listening to this song many times (Kkot-Galpi-IU) Kkot-Galpi3 is hiding now It's gonna be released someday If Kkot-Galpi3 is gonna be released 'Lalala', 'Forgotten Season',
'Old Love', 'Letter' 'There Are Times Where I 
Want to Hug You So Badly' 'My Love by My Side', 'About Romance' 'With the Heart to Forget You'
are all hidden They're all the songs that I've covered But for the Kkot-Galpi series,
I try to contain those songs I've never 
covered before through other shows, etc. (Heart-IU) This 'Heart' is my own song
which I made by arranging it like a fan letter The album introductiono The one which would shine quietly,
although it's weak It's the song I want people to remember
even when IU goes up to heaven someday in future I always say this at concerts But when I say this, the fans 
really don't like it The fans don't like the fact that
IU will be forgotten Since that reaction is cute,
and I wanted to see it I say that words more often (Love poem-IU)
Already, the Love poem It only contains only the stories 
about love Since I wanted make the hearts
of the listeners a bit warmer The originally prepared album 
was a bit cool, you know It's a mini album after getting rid of it
and newly prepared The people here are all promoting
the song eight now The people just posted comments
about 10 minutes ago Should I try posting a comment here I should do this later, right? I cried as I listened to the song, 
am I normal? You're normal,
you're so normal indeed I did the same I'm crying so hard on the way to work No, I guess it's because 
that's your preference I guess those people who has
a different preference, would feel so so Their own opinions,
ah I like such an honest opinion The person who could say 'no'
when everyone says 'yes' Denying IU is denying this world Just acknowledge IU as the best 
singer in Korea, the best singer ever already For those who can't listen well,
I beg you like this Ah, it's really funny 1 minute is left I'm trembling a little I'm trembling Okay, let's see it First of all, give 5 points for the
album evaluation, and press 'like' I press 'like' as well since 
the song is released quickly as well It's done, I've done all I have to do It's really the best I'm sure they couldn't listen
to all of it yet though It's not passed 3 minutes yet Wow, the song is awesome I can't believe my favorite IU
is added by a world-class sugar of Suga The combination of these two
should go to the Billboard But, there's no option but to like this It's the song that I began to like after it was made The song called eight
is an age-related series But I was so spiritless
when I was 28 Although I tried various things
to work on, I was spiritless I felt spiritless I wanted to record those emotions I don't know what the reason was Just the fact that I worked for a long time or everyone is suffering from viruses or others these days in society The people get spiritless, right With various reasons, my 28 was just like a symbol
drawing a limitless number it felt like it just stayed there
without moving forward? So, I tried making a song remembering those moments I could become free,
and felt happiness After I showed up
in Look Me Up today I glanced to various spots I learned many nicknames
that I didn't know about and also the fact that I'm 
the one-top of Korea's hiphop Today was really joyful
Thank you (what is it, it's such an
unimaginable genre TT) (it's really good! woah.. I wasn't
interested in IU, but I think I'll become her fan) (system turned off..) 