TOP 10 REASONS Why We Know the Earth is Round
10. All the other planets and stars we've ever
seen are round and there's no reason to indicate that the earth should be any different. 9. Time Zones. Day and night happen at different times at
different places on earth - in fact, it's always day somewhere and night somewhere else. 8. The Coriolis Effect means freely moving things
(like cannonballs or hurricane winds) are deflected to the right - but only if you're
north of the equator. If you're south of the equator, they're deflected
left. 7. Triangles. If you walk 10,000km straight along the earth's
surface, turn 90° to your right, walk 10,000km more, turn right again and walk another 10,000km,
you will be back to where you started, having successfully made a triangle with three 90°
angles. As any geometry student can tell you, this
is impossible on a flat surface. 6. The sun, in general, gets lower and lower
in the sky as you travel away from the equator and you can use this to measure the earth's
curvature. Pick two places a few hundred miles directly
north and south of each other and at noon, measure the shadows cast by a vertical meter-stick
at each location. You can use the shadow-lengths to figure out
the angle between the sticks and once you add in how far apart they are, you can calculate
the earth's curvature. 5. The stars at night change as you go north
or south - for example, Orion is upside down if you're in Australia! 4. Ferdinand Magellan (and many people afterwards)
circumnavigated the earth. That means he left headed west, continued
going west, and came back to where they started, still going west (actually, Magellan was dead,
but one of his ships - led by Juan Sebastián Elcano - finished the journey). If you head west and circumnavigate the earth
yourself, you'll be able to tell because you'll observe one fewer sunrise than everyone who
stays at home. 3. The horizon. Ships on the ocean or tall Chicago buildings
viewed over Lake Michigan disappear bottom-first. And you can see the sun set twice if you watch
it lying down and then quickly stand up. The simple fact is, if the earth were flat,
there wouldn't be a horizon beyond which things could disappear so you'd be able to see all
of Chicago from across Lake Michigan… as well as the rocky mountains. 2. During a lunar eclipse, the shadow of the
earth on the moon is curved. And... 1. We know the earth is round because we have
photographic evidence. 