As the Covid-19 pandemic is sweeping across the globe, many countries and regions have gone into lockdown confining people to their homes and drastically reducing economic and social activities. In many places road traffic has halted and passenger airplanes stay grounded. Some effects of these radical changes on our planet were visible in only a few weeks. From orbit the European fleet of Copernicus satellites
have observed these rapid changes. From the waters of the Venice lagoon clearing up, to changes in our atmosphere where a swift reduction in NO2 concentration has occurred especially in regions which have gone into lockdown. So with Sentinel-5P of our Copernicus programme, we have observed actually quite some stunning
images of concentrations of NO2. NO2 is one of the gases that is created directly
by people, school, traffic and an industry. And these are really the main polluting sources. And interesting part, or interesting fact of NO2 is that it is a gas that is a relatively short lived. It lives for half a day, roughly a few hours, and therefore it can be directly traced to the pollution source. That means traffic and industry where it is produced. Recent measurements of NO2 of end of March, early April have shown that over several cities in Europe, which have been heavily affected by the lockdown after the coronavirus restrictions have been applied, that these values are going down by about 50 percent. By measuring concentrations of NO2 from space ESA and its scientific partners can indirectly determine the impact of corona
measures on industrial and economic activity. Over major cities across the globe a massive reduction in NO2 has been recorded whenever a lockdown has been put in place. In Los Angeles for example the famous smog
has disappeared and in regions in India the peaks of Himalayas can been seen again
for the first time in a generation. Other regions, for instance in eastern Europe, industrial activity has continued and these are also visible from space as they do not show a reduction in NO2 pollution. The reduction of NO2 pollution is in itself good news as it does affects people’s health. NO2 is known to cause respiratory problems and aggravate underlying conditions such as asthma. However today the reduction in air pollution comes at a very severe cost in terms of economic growth, mental wellbeing and disposable income with millions of people confined to their
homes and even losing their jobs. So this drastic reduction is not a sustainable one. But as countries are now preparing to restart
their economies with massive stimulus packages there might be a choice to do things differently. I think there it is very important that we
are using this momentum. But also the situation seeing clear skies today and hearing the birds outside our windows that we realized how important it is to preserve our planet, our nature, and therefore do the investments of the stimulus
package in a way that they are sustainable and they are still in line in harmony with
our planet. One way or another. It is estimated that air pollution in general causes over 500 000 premature deaths in Europe
every year. And cleaner air is certain to be beneficial
for our health. So as we battle the Covid crisis, we should try to innovate and shape our world
for a better tomorrow. From Space ESA will continue to give us the data we need to take the pulse of our planet… and act on it 