Earth has its share
of monster storms, but even the most
powerful hurricanes are a breeze compared to the
great planet-sized tempests of the gas giants. The great vortices
of the Jovian planets are true storms,
analogous in many ways to Earth's hurricanes. But there are, of
course, some differences. For example, these storms
are as big as entire planets. The largest and oldest
storm in the solar system is Jupiter's Great
Red Spot, stretching an incredible two to three
times the diameter of the planet Earth. Meanwhile, the
fastest winds ever measured, clocking 1,500
miles per hour, once raged in Neptune's Great Dark Spot. Saturn's polar vortex is a
20,000-mile-wide monster shaped like a hexagon. Even plain-looking Uranus
hides USA-sized hurricanes below its methane haze. There are many unsolved mystery
surrounding these epic storms. We may be close to finding
some answers following the Juno spacecraft's recent
flyby of Jupiter's Great Red Spot. Before we get to the unknown,
let's talk about what we do know about these storms. In fact, let's start with
those found on Earth. Hurricanes, cyclones,
and typhoons are all the same
weather pattern. Their name just depends
on where they form. As with the gas giant
storms, these monsters are powered by convection. Warm water-laden air
rises from below, while cool air and precipitation
sink from above, creating a vertical convection cell. In the case of earth storms, the
energy powering that convection comes from the sun-warmed ocean. This convection sustains a
central low-pressure region, which sucks in the
surrounding moist ocean air. These incoming winds
travel such large distances across the Earth's
surface that they are subject to the Coriolis force. Earth is, of course,
rotating on its axis. Any object moving over
a spinning surface will appear to follow a curved
path relative to an observer moving with that surface. On a clockwise-spinning
surface, there's a pull, a Coriolis
force, to the left, while on a
counter-clockwise surface the Coriolis force
is to the right. So as air rushes
in all directions into a low-pressure storm
cell, the Coriolis effect causes it to curl
around in a circle. The result is a raging
vortex in the same direction as the Earth's
rotation, clockwise in the southern hemisphere and
counterclockwise in the north. These storms can persist as
long as the warm ocean provides energy to drive the
convection cycle. Over cold water or land,
this power source is cut off and the storm dies. Another key to hurricane's
longevity is moisture supply. Wet ocean air is pulled in
by the low-pressure core, and it rises in the
convection cell. As it cools, it
condenses into clouds, which are driven outwards. Eventually, the moisture rains
down, completing the cycle and maintaining
the storm's core. This is another reason why
storms weaken near or on land. Too little water, and
convection ceases. It's also why the
most powerful storms are driven by
low-pressure rather than high-pressure cores. See, a low pressure
core draws inwards, replenishing the water supply. A high-pressure core
pushes air outwards, depleting the supply of
moisture and shortening the storm's life. The outgoing winds of
a high-pressure cell still do respond to the Coriolis
force, so they form a vortex. However, that vortex rotates
in the opposite direction, clockwise in the north and
counterclockwise in the south. Whereas low-pressure
vortices are called cyclonic, high-pressure vortices
are called anti-cyclonic. So there we have it. The most powerful
storms tend to be low-pressure cyclonic systems
powered by sun-warmed water. Gas giant storms are
a little different. They are most often
anti-cyclonic, high-pressure systems and are
powered not by the sun, but by the collapse
of the planet itself. See, the planet's never
quite finished forming. They originally collapsed from
the vast gas disk left over after the sun's birth. But five billion years
later, that collapse continues, albeit very slowly. Jupiter, for example, shrinks
by about two centimeters every year. As they contract,
gas giants convert gravitational potential
energy into heat, which in turn powers the largest
storms in the solar system. As contraction-heated
gas rises, it cools. On Earth, the only source
of condensation is water, but the gas giants' atmospheres
span such a wide range of temperature and pressure that
all sorts of molecular species condense. Most of Jupiter's visible
clouds are ammonia ice, tainted with colorful impurities,
but there also clouds of hydrogen
sulfide and regular H2O. The phase changes from gas to
liquid to solid release latent heat that lifts the
storm still higher. All of this happens
in the troposphere, the densest and innermost
layer of the atmosphere. On Earth, the troposphere
is about 10 miles thick. But on the gas giants,
it can extend 100 miles into the planet's murky depths,
where pressure forces the gas into a metallic liquid state. A powerful storm can
breach the tropopause into the stratosphere. For example, the Great Red
Spot towers eight kilometers above Jupiter's iconic
bright and dark belts. Now, the spot itself is quite
cold, in fact below freezing, but all of its activity
warms the upper atmosphere to 1,600 Kelvin. With such a wide range
of molecular species driving an incredibly
deep convection cycle, there's no danger of a Jovian
storm system running out of molecules to condense. Even high-pressure,
outward-blowing storms don't dry up like
they do on Earth. In fact, all of the famous
storms like the Great Red Spot, Neptune's Great Dark
Spot, and Saturn's polar vortex are or were anti-cyclonic. Gas giant storms can
last for many years. Neptune's Dark Spot
lasted several years before dissipating in 1994. However, Jupiter's
Great Red Spot has raged for at
least 350 years. We're still trying to unlock
the secrets of these storms' longevity. A combination of a near
inexhaustible supply of heat and an abundant supply of
condensable molecules helps. In the case of the
Great Red Spot, it also helps that the beast
frequently cannibalizes small storms, absorbing their energy,
and that it is sandwiched between a pair of 300 to
400-mile-an-hour jet streams that are moving in opposite
directions to each other. These help keep
the spot spun up. But even with all of
this, the Great Red Spot's centuries-long life
span is mysterious. And in fact, it may finally
be coming to an end. The spot is showing
signs of shrinking. In the 1800s, it spanned
37,000 kilometers, or about three Earths in width. However, as of April
this year, the spot spans just 16,350
kilometers, or 1.3 Earths. The storm is also circularizing. And although its smaller, its
wind speeds haven't diminished. Is the great red
spot fading away? What's causing this shrinking? The answers to the
storm's longevity and fate may be found in the
details of its structure. And for that, we
need to get close. For that, we need Juno. NASA launched the $1.1
billion Juno mission in 2011. The probe will swing
within 3,400 kilometers of the Jovian cloud tops and
ultimately crash into them to avoid contaminating
potentially life-bearing moons like Europa and to peek under
the gas giant's cloud cover. Juno carries eight instruments,
including a radiometer for probing the atmospherics
high-pressure depths, an imaging spectrograph for
studying cloud chemistry, a magnetometer for
measuring Jupiter's intense magnetic field, and a
four-color wide-field JunoCam. Juno spends most of
its orbit millions of miles away from
Jupiter's harsh radiation, but every 53 days it ducks
under the radiation belt and turns on its instruments
for a two-hour transit from pole to pole. During that time, Juno snaps
a picture every 60 seconds, fast enough to catch at least
six angles of a given feature. This is perfect for
measuring cloud heights and also to record
horizontal cloud drift, which gives us wind speeds. Juno's flyby images of the Great
Red Spot are really amazing. These are taken by
JunoCam and incredibly processed by volunteer
citizen scientists Look at the difference
between these images from Hubble, Galileo,
Cassini, and Juno. The level of detail
is incredible. All of these images
were taken on July 10 during Juno's seventh flyby
from just 5,600 kilometers above the clouds. With all the little
plumes and eddies, it is the first time
we've seen so many storms within storms, especially
in the Great Red Spot. They weave around the
edges at top speed. But in the center, everything
is perfectly calm like the eye of a mega-hurricane. Even accounting for
the resolution limits of older photos, Juno is
revealing real changes. For example,
there's a transition from long streaks
to smaller eddies. This represents a shift from
streamline to turbulent flow. Turbulent flow acts like
friction, sapping energy away from the bulk rotation. And this may be connected to
the spot's shrinking size. As well as getting
smaller, the Great Red Spot is becoming more circular. In fact, it may be
completely circular in the next couple of decades. But that doesn't necessarily
mean it's going to vanish. Besides size, velocity is a
good measure of storm strength. Over the last few decades,
the storm has gone smaller, but it now appears that its
winds are not any slower. The pictures from JunoCam
are just the beginning. Juno's other science
instruments have provided an enormous
amount of data, and more will come in
the upcoming 30 flybys. Scientists are poring
over this data right now. And with the help from
citizen scientists, perhaps like you,
we're sure to unravel some of the secrets of the solar
system's most powerful storms. You could stay updated
on Juno's discoveries on its interactive website
and by staying tuned to "Space Time." I want to send out a
storm of thank you's to our Patreon supporters. You make our job so much easier. And a very special thanks to
quasar supporter Mars Yentur. Mars, you're hoping
us keep the lights on and the convection
cells powered. Last week, we talked about
John Archibald Wheeler's one electron universe
idea as well as gave the solution to the
Feynman diagram challenge. You guys had a lot to say. Andreas64 asks why we don't
also talk about the one proton or one neutron universe. Well, Wheeler was
really just using the electron as an example. The natural extension would be
that every elementary particle along with its
anti-particle counterpart is the same particle bouncing
forwards and backwards in time. Not too much protons
and neutrons, but the different quarks as well
as muons, neutrinos, et cetera. Keith Gaughan wonders if
the imbalance between matter and anti-matter
is due to the time in the history of the
universe that we're observing. Well, actually, the fun
thing about the one electron proposition is that it doesn't
matter when in time you are. You should always see the
same proportion of matter to anti-matter. To prove this to
yourself, try drawing a space-time diagram, time
on the y-axis and space on the x-axis. Now, draw the zigzag of an
electron bouncing up and down. Start moving upwards and
end moving downwards. Make each turning point
at a different time so the zigzags are uneven. Now, draw some horizontal lines. Count each upward-moving
line as an electron and the downs as positrons. It doesn't matter
what times you choose. You'll always get
the same number of electrons versus positrons. Vacuum Diagrams points out
that two diagrams are missing from the challenge answer. There should be diagrams
with photons connecting across the vertices of the
two-vertex photon deflection diagram, like this. My bad. I incorrectly considered these
to be self-energy diagrams. Fortunately, no one was
penalized for my error. YouTube Account points out that
the perfect name for dark flow isn't WTF flow, but
rather what the flow. Yeah, I realized I'd
missed that puntunity right after leaving the studio. I was even tempted to
reshoot, but thank you for giving me the
chance at redemption. Don Solaris asks
how I manage to make my beard super-symmetrical. Well, my barber just shaves
half-integer spin off the sides. It really takes my facial hair
beyond the standard model. 