If there's one thing that gets views on YouTube right now, it's videos ABOUT views on YouTube, am I right? This is our response to the YouTube Censorship Controversy. Look, there's a lot going on on YouTube right now, okay? People are scared, their videos are getting demonetized, or they're not available in Restricted Mode, okay? Nobody knows what's going on! What's happening?? Oh, *I* know what's happening! It's CENSORSHIP *dramatic music* A lot of folks think that YouTube has an agenda and they're trying to suppress the free speech of others by taking away their money or limiting their audience. And look: YouTube may very well have an agenda against you. They might not like your videos, okay? I dunno. I'm not arguing that today. What I'm arguing here in this video is that no one is being censored by YouTube. AT ALL. There are four main arguments that people are using in order to prove that they are being censored. And today on Messy Mondays, I am going to *DEBUNK* all four of them. Here's the first one. I HAVE A RIGHT TO FREE SPEECH! Ah, yes, the old First Amendment argument. Classic. The First Amendment just means that GOVERNMENT... ... *hand gesture for emphasis* GOVERNMENT can't make a law restricting your speech. It's a protection from the GOVERNMENT policing your mouth! That is VERY different from this alleged "YouTube censorship." See, censorship is when you're told you cannot say something. YouTube is not stopping anyone from saying anything! At worst, YouTube is saying, "We don't want you to say that HERE." I'll give you an example. If I come over to your house and I just start to randomly insult your mother... Has your mother gotten her... *chuckle* eating addiction under control? I'm genuinely concerned for her health. You are not censoring me by kicking me out of your house. You've not trampled on any of my rights. HEY, I HAVE A FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHT TO SAY WHAT I WANT IN THIS *FREE* COUNTRY!!! This is NOT censorship because after I am forcibly removed from the property, I'm free to talk about your obese mother anywhere I want. Now, with that said, if I'm in my own home and I get a knock at the door... 'scuse me, did I hear you say that your neighbor's mother is overweight?? That kind of derogatory speech is ILLEGAL in THIS country! Come here! NOW I'm being censored. Because I'm being told that I cannot say what I want to say ANYWHERE. THAT. Is censorship. But that's not even what a lot of these YouTubers are saying. No, they're making ANOTHER argument that I've heard. They're saying THIS: YouTube demonetizing my videos is a soft form of censorship! The rationale behind this argument is that for many YouTubers YouTube is their job. so if YouTube cuts off their income stream, it's basically a back-handed way of shutting them up without having to shut them up. Without money, these YouTubers have to get other jobs and can't devote as much time and energy to making videos. Thus, a soft form of censorship. Now, I'm trying to represent this point of view as fairly and accurately as possible, but it's one that I completely disagree with. And here's why. Suppose you're paying me to tell you some jokes. What did the Thousand Island say when someone opened the fridge? I don't know. What? Close the door, I'm DRESSING. *raucous laughter* Things are all good; this is a mutually beneficial situation! MUTUALLY BENEFICIAAAALLLLL BUT. Suppose I say something like THIS: All right, all right, now I'm gonna tell you some yo mama jokes and they're gonna be very vulgar this time-- No no no no, I don't wanna hear those! W-what're you talking about? You pay me to tell you jokes! Yeah, but I don't wanna hear yo mama jokes, I don't wanna pay for that! *imminent implosion* THIS IS MY JOB, THAT IS MY MONEY, Hear this loud and clear, folks: You are not owed YouTube's money. YouTube can do whatever they want with the advertising revenue they bring in. It's THEIR'S, it's their platform, their servers, their interface, their ads, okay? You're not forced to upload your videos to YouTube. No one's making you! Easy for you to say! I bet none of YOUR videos have ever been demonetized, "BLIMEY COW." Th-that's true, that's very fair. As of the recording of this video, none of our videos have been flagged. Which I will talk about more in a minute because I think I know why. But with that said, if for some reason YouTube completely demonetizes our entire channel tomorrow, this is what we would say: Oh. It seems that YouTube isn't gonna pay us anymore for our videos. Oh. You know, that DID seem too good to be true. // Yeah. That's the honest truth! I mean, yeah, it would be a bummer, it would hurt us financially, yeah, but then guess what we would do. We would clickbait-- we would-- so hard, even the almighty Buzzfeed would be jealous. Hey guys, I just wanted to let you know real quick that Google has completely demonetized our entire channel We have no way of living, no way of making money If you wanna support us, you like what we do, go to patreon.com/blimeycow, okay? Thanks. We are not owed YouTube's money. We understand that. We're grateful that they give it to us each month, but we make videos on this channel because we like doing it. We don't do it for the money. We're happy that people give us money for doing it, but we would still do it even if we didn't make any money doing it. Now, it might look a little different and it might be a little less frequent, but we wouldn't go anywhere just because YouTube said... You know that money we've been giving you as a thank you for hosting your content on our website? Well, we're gonna stop doing that now. Well, wow, that's a bummer, but okay! It's YOUR money, after all. And that leads to the third argument I've heard and this one makes the least sense out of pretty much all of them. *obnoxiously* Uhh, actually, YouTube is a MONOPOLY. So if they shut down creators like me, then that IS censorship! I don't know how people think YouTube is a monopoly, okay? Monopoly: the exclusive possession or control of the supply or trade in a commodity or service. Is YouTube the only video-streaming website on the internet? Oh, oh, it's NOT???? Well, do they own all of the servers so that competing companies can't start NEW video-streaming sites???? OH. THEY DON'T DO THAT. Yeah, YouTube's not a monopoly. They're just a company that you have the freedom to stop using if you're mad about the way that they conduct their business. YouTube has become such a monopoly that I'm gonna start uploading on one of their competitors! HOW ABOUT THAT? But you don't stop using them, you just keep doing it. You're just a complainer, right? *chuckles* That was kinda harsh, but... (it's true) And the fourth and final argument is... is this... this one, this beauty: YouTube has an agenda and doesn't like my opinions so they wanna shut it down! Look. You may very well have a point, okay? Maybe they DO want to shut you down. But even if that's true, EVEN IF THEY REALLY DO HATE YOUR GUTS, YOU'RE STILL NOT BEING CENSORED, OKAY? And you're probably not being persecuted, either! Look, you can find proof of persecution anywhere you want. I mean, try to type Blimey Cow-- right now, try to type Blimey Cow into the YouTube search bar. IT DOESN'T AUTOCOMPLETE, IT NEVER HAS! *illuminati music* are we being shadow banned? Look, maybe YouTube doesn't like you. I don't know. But I don't think it matters that much because a lot of this just comes down to dollars and cents. Let me explain. I think a lot of this content, not all of it, but a lot of it that's being demonetized or not available in Restricted Mode is because of... how you say... *nervous chuckles* ...excessive bad language. I KNOW, IT'S CRAZY. But guess what? Advertisers are always gonna be a little skittish about content that swears a lot. *excessive bad language* I mean, this is why there are certain words that they still bleep out on South Park. They don't have to, they're on cable, they can say whatever they want! So WHY do they do it??? Well, it's not because Comedy Central is saying THIS, that's for sure! *GASP* I canNOT believe the words they think they can get away with saying on this show! Who do they think they are?? Look, I'm no prude myself, but I'm just concerned about the people watching at home! This is-- this stuff isn't good for their ears!! No, it's easier to sell advertising on content that doesn't say bad words. And I think that's why our channel really hasn't been hit: Because our content is appropriate for all ages. Our content is easy to sell advertising for. Fingers crossed that it keeps staying that way *nervous chuckle* So I don't know what the point of all this is, okay? Just stop saying you're being censored. Be grateful that you've got money for pointing a camera at yourself in the first place! Do you know how amazing it is to be alive right now?? I mean, I literally stand in a dark room and rant and we make enough money to support all of us! If one day that ends, I'm not even gonna be upset! I'm gonna say WOW. Remember that time we got paid to make dumb videos on the internet?? You remember that? *disbelieving chuckles* That was crazy. *more disbelieving chuckles* YouTube might actually demonetize us! *nervous chuckle* No, seriously, like n-next week, we will find out if the rumors are true, okay? *another nervous chuckle* We'll see. Thank you, Patrons! After next week, uh, y-you might... you might be all that we have left. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Here this loud and clear folks: You are not owned... // (off-camera) "OWED." Oh, yes. // (off-camera) "You are not OWED YouTube's money." "...YouTube's money." *giggle* y-you just keep that. *more giggles* (off-camera) You looked so confused! Jordan: Like I'm totally just reading the superscript *laughs* "O-OWED. OWED." *cute Jordan laughter* We should keep this! We should keep that, that was funny. // (off-camera laughter) 