YooJung: We are at . Weki Meki, let's cheer up for the last performance.  Weki Meki, let's get crazy Oh, let's do it again. Weki Meki, let's cheer up for the last performance. Weki Meki, let's get crazy! (Bbobki-Toki is back~) DoYeon: Oh, it's so difficult. Make a sentence using the following words:  'OOPSY, Moya Moya, The Paradise, Youniverse, DAZZLE DAZZLE'. After the song 'DAZZLE DAZZLE', we came back with the song 'OOPSY',  and we really wanted to show the performance of 'Moya Moya',  it was so sad that we could not get a chance to show it, we are going to show some performance like 'The Paradise',   and as we are soon having a third anniversary,  we are going to go with 'Ki-Ling' to our 'Youniverse'(?) ELLY: Do you know what this is? This is called in-ear tape. 
(The in-ear tape arrived at work together again) I use it to stable the microphone. Today is our last performance day.  (In-ear tape is used for various usage)
DoYeon: Who are you talking to? Will you go together with me? I love you so much! Bye~~ ('OOPSY' rehearsal is over) (The next Bbobki-Toki is SEI)
SEI: Today... I want to pick the one in the middle. What's your 'OOPSY' moment of today? I just did a camera rehearsal,  I couldn't hear my voice through the in-ear.
So I was 'OOPSY'! I was 'OOPSY' during the performance, 
so I took one of the in-ears out in the middle. As the sound was so small, I was 'OOPSY'.  (The behind story of special gesture)
SEI: I used to let my hair down, so that time I could do something like this. As now I have my hair tied... (# Number 1) 
This one (# Number 2) 
... and this one.  This hand motion might not show well... Also, when I do 'No no no', the camera catches me from the below. While during 'OOPSY' pose, I did like this. (#These are today's watching point! Please remember!)
SEI: Watch me how well I do on the live performance. YooJung: She doesn't know until the end. SuYeon: Can you fly those papers? Then I'll pick one. (SuYeon denies doing ordinary Bbobki-Toki) Was there anything you were disappointed about 
while doing 'OOPSY' performances?  What I was disappointed about was, on the first week, I think we were unable to grab a border. Especially me. Facial expressions... Still I'm not that satisfied. Even though this is our last week, I still have some regrets. In the next album, I'll try to come back in a better way.  Though I have some regrets, it was fun.  ELLY: Do you have any special gesture you prepared 
for the last day of the performance? I don't have one... Until the second week, I did like this... but now I changed it like this. I cannot remember what I did just now. What's the matter with me? I can't remember.  I wanted to something like a 'heart' pose,
but I did not have enough courage to do it. (The pro-idol who is still shy) LUCY: Well... Bbobki-Toki.  If you have 'ㅋㅋㅋ', sing the whole 'Kiki song'.  (Softly putting the paper in) (Today's last Bbobki-Toki)
YooJung: Last time, I felt a little sad as I picked 'Kiki song', though I wanted to pick some questions. Leave a video message to members who did well on their performances. All Weki Meki members~♥ As all of you made me happy and were with me, I could end the performance well.  The process and the days I have came through were not that hard than what I expected.  It was much more fun and happy. In the future, I would love to show more performances to Ki-Ling in bigger stages. and let the world know that Weki Meki is fascinating. All of you did so well. Let's make more great memories together.  I love you so much~♥ (Having a small self-celebration party)
Weki Meki, all of you did a great job.  Good work everyone.  One, two, three. Ki-Ling, thank you so much for your supports. Let's meet tomorrow at 'Inkigayo'. One, two, three... 'OOPSY' last performance at 'Inkigayo'. LUCY: We are at 'Inkigayo'.
RINA: 'Inkigayo'! SEI: We suddenly arrrived at 'Inkigayo'. SEI: 'OOPSY'
LUCY: 'OOPSY' LUCY: It's too hot.
SEI: Today's the last day of the performance. LUCY: It's too hot. SEI: Oh my god, what happened? Your rings have come off.  LUCY: Will you put a ring on my finger?  SEI: Do it yourself. LUCY: I want to get the ring put on by you.
SEI: Bye~~ SEI: 'Inkigayo' fighting. RINA: The ring is too big.  RINA: Maybe this is not your mate. LUCY: I'm okay. (Sometimes... I cry... by LUCY)
LUCY: I'm okay. RINA: During the performance, I thought that... (#Content_withdrawing 1/n)
I wore the necklace LUCY stoled in the 'Music Bank', at the next 'Music Bank' performance. LUCY: Don't put positive connotation. 
I know you want to have something with me. LUCY: I'm so tired.
RINA: Get out.  (#Content_withdrawing 2/n)
RINA: When I sing this part,  YooJung walks backward towards me, not seeing the back. So I have to tell her by touching her like this. But this was never shown in any fancams. If it were shown, I am sure it would be funny. LUCY: RINA, you intend everything, right? Our fans love our natural motions.  If you do something with intention, it is a spoiler.  (RINA doing a rap, feeling unfair)
RINA: But no one recognizes, if I don't tell them. (RINA's fury increasing gradually)
RINA: You have to express. LUCY: I regret everyday, 
because RINA never knows my love. RINA doesn't know, even though I express it. RINA: What do you mean? I know your love, when you express it.
(The fight is being transformed into something childish) LUCY: You don't know it. 
RINA: I do know it. LUCY: What do you know?
RINA: Your love and your heart. LUCY: How is my heart feeling right now?  RINA: I do know. 
LUCY: You don't know. (Hope you make up with each other ASAP) SEI: Bbobki-Toki I want to pick the second one.  (You shouldn't read...SEI.) SEI: Leave a video message to yourself. SEI, while preparing the performances and  while doing the performances, I felt satisfied and proud, as I could feel that 'you have grown up 
as your experience have accumulated'. I am proud of you as you are doing well with your members. Thank you SEI. Thank you for being healthy. From now on, and in the next come back, I hope you grow up more, 
loving your members and Ki-Ling more. Thank you. Fighting. ELLY: I'll do today's Bbobki-Toki. (The reaction-fairy behind SEI is called in.) Today's three TMI. Today... (TMI 1. ELLY ate a yogurt for breakfast.)
I ate a yogurt in the morning. (TMI 2. Today she is wearing a lens.)
And because I'm wearing a lens, my eyes are hurting. (TMI 3. There are someone's eyes looking at her.)
And now, SEI is looking at me. This was truly a TMI. SuYeon: Can I pick the paper, if you throw the paper? (Her catching ability is surprisingly developing.) Let's look at it. Tell today's ambition for the last performance. As today we are generally 'pink pink',  I am going to show brighter 'OOPSY' today. I'm sad that this is the last performance. I'll do my best. (Time for rehearsal) ELLY: Today I'm going to put this 'OOPSY' in trouble. ELLY: I am in trouble because I love Ki-Ling so much. LUA: As this is our last perfomance day, 
I think I have to do something special. ELLY: Do this.
LUA: But I don't have that part of the song. RINA: Oh, I shouldn't be so happy. 
The last performance, fighting! (The time before the rehearsal.
The sad ending of the 5 line acrostic poem, 
which were intended to be moving) (Doing 5 line acrostic poem with 'Thank you, Ki-Ling')
SEI: Oh, thank you Ki-Ling... Did you eat sweet potatoes? (The next is...)
ELLY. Did you eat sweet potatoes? ELLY: Ma! This is roasted sweet potato.
(No one expected this kind of plot!) The next one is SuYeon. SuYeon, you can do it. SuYeon: What...? Sweet potato? SuYeon: I cannot understand it. SuYeon: Wow. This is roasted sweet potato. Other members: You are not funny at all. SuYeon: The next will be YooJung. No, well, I'll change to LUA. (Gradually feeling that this poem will fail.)
LUA: SuYeon gave me so difficult work to do. LUA: Ki-Ling will eat sweet potatoes and be taller. (Maybe this is relay of saying whatever pops into their mind)
Good. Now I want to see YooJung's cleverness. YooJung: Me? LUA: Fighting, YooJung. YooJung: This is a mess. Ring ring, sweet potato~ YooJung: Why are you looking at me like that? Hey, why is our members so terrible at 5 line acrostic poem? DoYeon: Are you good at it? YooJung: Yes. DoYeon: Then, show me. DoYeon: Bbung!
YooJung: Bbung-i-yo, I have fried it. Try one. DoYeon: Gi. 
YooJung: This is truly good! DoYeon: She is good at it.
(Truly good ability of YooJung) (Q. What is sweet potato for Weki Meki?)
YooJung: For Weki Meki, sweet potato is Ki-Ling. (Best organizer_YooJung)
Because they are sweet. Therefore, sweet potatoes are Ki-Ling ~ ♥ (The Bbobki Toki of quitting time fairy) RINA: 'OOPSY' is [ ? ]. 'OOPSY' is... the last performance day? (Maybe she only has 'the last performance day' in her mind) (You only have 'going home' in your mind, right?) RINA: 'OOPSY' is the last performance day! Though it is sad, today is the last performance day of 'OOPSY'. I'm not liking it. This is something like ... cheering up! (As it is the last day... one more!) RINA: Who is the one you were most thankful for during the 'OOPSY' performances? It was LUCY.  Because she made me laugh a lot. 
(Reason: LUCY was the 'laugh hunter') Weki Meki members, thank you all for not being hurt, not being sick, and doing the performance without any troubles. You all did a good job, and today is the last performance day. You all did a great job. I love you. ♥ YooJung: Put your philtrum stable! YooJung: Do you have any member you were thankful for during the performances? SEI: I'm sure it is SEI. DoYeon: Think about it carefully. (YooJung feeling burdened.)
YooJung: Think carefully? ... I'm thankful for everyone. I'll pick someone who gave me a practical help. It is ELLY and LUCY. YooJung: They helped me take off my hair extension.
DoYeon: I agree. (ELLY and LUCY gave her carefree-ness)
YooJung: Thanks to ELLY and LUCY, my hair is much lighter than before. So I'm going to pick ELLY and LUCY. YooJung&SEI: Fighting!
DoYeon: Why are you ending it? Don't end it. YooJung: Why??
DoYeon: Please continue. YooJung: What should I say, when I don't have anything to say?
DoYeon: She is doing what she was told. (Saying any word that pops out of the mind.zip)
YooJung: I changed the background for my phone in the morning. I was so happy as I changed it. 
I smiled at it, after looking at it in the morning. (The background is DoYeon's cousin) DoYeon: You mean my cousin is funny? YooJung: I smiled because he is cute! DoYeon: Am I funny? Funny? Funny?
YooJung: I'm feeling exhausted because of her. DoYeon: You make me tired too. Do you want to see what is 'really exhausting?' DoYeon: Until now, it was how to make YooJung furious.
YooJung: I'm really furious! DoYeon: Are you a rhino?
YooJung: A bull. (Not understandable YooJung and DoYeon tension)
YooJung: Your face make me 'don't want to talk'. Do you hate me talking? 
Why are you keep on asking me to talk? She always tells me to talk any words like this. After telling me to do something, yesterday, (Hot Issue! 200704 'Show! Music Core' ending)
we were all dancing like this, and when camera caught us, she acted as if she did not dance like this.
And we shifted to the next part,  she started to push me to do it. So I do it as she asked me to do it. 
She is weird. She tells me to do it, though she doesn't like it.
And she doesn't like it, if I do it. But she asks me to do it. And I do it. 
(Oh my god...) DoYeon: Hey, don't stop it.
YooJung: So... YooJung: My teeth were uneven...
(The talk is getting out of the track)  DoYeon: Fight fire with fire!  DoYeon: Ouch! (Does anyone know why they are doing this?) 
DoYeon & YooJung: (Singing) DoYeon & YooJung: Adios! YooJung: Why, why, why, why are you keep on teasing me! YooJung: (Doing a rap) (OOPSY_Real_Last_Performance.mp4) SEI: It's over! LUA: I did a 'tear-dropping gesture' 
feeling sad as it was the last performance of 'OOPSY'. Did you see it? I'm not sure you have seen it well. I'm not sure as it was the last performance, 
but today I enjoyed the performance more. Though I couldn't get the 'Ki-Ling part'...
If there were Ki-Ling together, it would have been more fun, right? However, I believe that day would come true one day. YooJung: I'm so happy that no one got hurt and we finished our performance staying healthy. Weki Meki and Ki-Ling, all did a good job.  DoYeon: The 'Hide&Seek' performance 
which I have prepared so hard is over now. I'm not sad, but there is some sad atmosphere around me. 
Anyways... I'll be back with a better album. Please look forward to it. Weki Meki: It's over! 