“There's nothing in the world
more powerful than a good story.” "Now this is gonna be a good story." Heroes from every corner of the world
unite against an evil that threatens life itself, and it comes down to
one person with the last name Stark to save the day,
after they’re reminded of a prophecy that assures them their
valiant act was always in the cards. How is it that the two biggest
franchises of our times, Game of Thrones and the
Marvel Cinematic Universe, both center on this plot point? As a matter of fact, this similarity
only scratches the surface of all the ways the two stories overlap. They have numerous main characters
with parallel arcs, similar overarching plots and themes, and so many random details in common
it’s almost weird. Both feature a warrior
with a metal hand or arm, a witch who dresses all in red
and evolves from antagonist to noble ally, a special metal that begins
with the letter “V” and comes from an ancient, legendary civilization, “Vibranium, yeah. Strongest metal on earth.” “Careful, Your Grace. Nothing cuts like Valyrian steel." people dying in a way that looks like
dissolving into lots of little pieces, and visions or prophecies that lead characters to live in fear
of their loved ones dying prematurely. Both franchises have
inspired huge fandoms, shattered records, and changed our understanding
of what TV and movies can do. But in their final chapters, as Game of Thrones came to an end and the original phase of the MCU
concluded in Avengers: Endgame, one stumbled while
the other delighted and satisfied. So what made the difference? Let’s take a closer look
at the weird resemblances and the final divergence between
Game of Thrones and Endgame to see how they reveal today’s zeitgeist,
what audiences want, and how to land a very big plane
when you’re under pressure. "We're all going to die. But at least we die together." "If we lose?" "Then we do that together too." Before go on, we want to talk
about this video's sponsor. So click the link in the description
below to sign up now. So first let’s talk about
all that Game of Thrones and the first decade
of the MCU movies have in common. Both are serialized multi-protagonist stories told on a sweeping scale. They feature supernatural
or fantasy elements and are known for their special
effects and epic battle sequences. They began within a few years
of each other, the MCU with Iron Man in 2008
and Game of Thrones in 2011, and the MCU closed a major chapter
with Avengers: Endgame just weeks before Game of Thrones
aired its series finale in the first half of 2019. Each story centers on magic entering,
or re-entering, a society that isn’t used to it. “Superheroes in New York? Give me a break” and that fears the implications
of that magic. "His skin is pale like a dead man's,
his eyes bluer than clear sky." And the story builds to a show-down with a super-villain
who represents death itself. “We're fighting Death!” "He could destroy life on a scale
hitherto undreamt of." Plus, if you look at the casts
of characters, the parallels are striking. Jon Snow and Captain America
lose their parents at a young age, serve in a military order, come back to life after dying
or being frozen, and act as the moral centers
of their worlds. "I'm always honest." “But when enough people
make false promises, words stop meaning anything.” Fan favorites Tyrion Lannister
and Tony Stark are rich, witty, highly intelligent ladies’
men “How do you know this?” “That’s what I do. I drink and I know things” "When did you become an expert
in thermonuclear astrophysics?” "Last night.” with cold, legacy-obsessed fathers. "It's what remains of you
when you're gone.” "It represents my life's work." Jaime Lannister and Thor start out as handsome, arrogant,
entitled sons to powerful patriarchs. They experience losing their hand,
even if for one it’s only an illusion, and both pretty boys have to spend
time without a significant body part. After their losses, they prove
themselves worthy over time. "It's the duty of the Lord Commander
to fill those pages. And there's still room left on mine." "I have much to learn. I know that now." Jaime’s and Thor’s siblings,
Cersei Lannister and Loki, are both smart and crafty with little regard
for conventional morality. "I would burn cities to the ground." “I ask for one thing in return: a good seat from which
to watch Asgard burn.” They’re sidelined by their fathers, develop a fearsome power-lust, and morph from villains
into tragic figures. Bran Stark and Dr. Strange
are each involved in an accident and lose a physical ability, only to unlock new mental power
under the tutelage of a wise mentor. “You will never walk again. But you will fly.” “You said that losing my hands
didn’t have to be the end, that it could be a beginning.” Daenerys Targaryen isn’t a perfect
match for any one MCU character, but she mirrors aspects of a few. "It's not easy to see something
that's never been before. A good world." "How do you know it'll be good?" "Because I know what is good" "If life is left unchecked,
life will cease to exist. It needs correction." "You don't know that! "I'm the only one who knows that." And perhaps most deeply, she resembles Black Panther’s
Erik Killmonger, the tragic figure who wants to fix an unjust world
but is ultimately destroyed by their own rage. “We will lay waste to armies
and burn cities to the ground.” “Burn it all!” Some of the similarities could be
pure coincidence, while others have an even
simpler explanation. Both stories, which originated
from written series, were influenced by
each other’s source material. Endgame screenwriter Christopher
Markus said Game of Thrones was a reference point
for Avengers: Infinity War. Quote, “How far apart
can you keep these strands, and for how long, and still feel like you’re
telling a single narrative?” Meanwhile, "A Song of Ice and Fire"
author George R.R. Martin has said that the Marvel comics
of his youth were, quote, “a bigger influence on my own work
than I would have dreamed” What Martin liked so much about
the Marvel comics was that, quote, “These characters had personalities. Quirks, flaws, tempers. The heroes were not all good,
the villains were not all bad. The stories had twists and turns.” "Did you know?" "Yes." He’s specifically cited the influence of the Marvel character Wonder Man
on his own writing “It’s like my whole career there. It’s a grey character. He seems to be a hero
but he’s really a villain, but at the end he’s redeemed because
he can’t do the villainous thing, but he gives up his life and dies heroically. All the things I like to
do in my own thing." In addition, these stories resonate
on a deep level because they center on age-old story tropes: from a hero’s painful sacrifice
for the greater good to the idea of creating
your own monster. And the many character echoes
probably come out of the fact that both draw on classic archetypes
from myths and literature. Game of Thrones and the MCU
channel their timeless narrative building blocks within a similar
kind of story world. They present a fantastic,
larger-than-life universe, but one that nonetheless reminds us of our world
in its underlying social dynamics The thrills of the epic scale
and exceptional characters are grounded in down-to-earth, even cynical observations
of how human civilization functions. “The powerful have always preyed
on the powerless. That's how they became powerful
in the first place.” "There are no men like me." "There are always men like you." Viewers today want a story that’s more vibrant and exciting
than our day-to-day, yet we still want it to speak
authentically to what’s going on in our lives and souls. "We will take back what
was stolen from me and destroy those who've wronged me." "The world took everything away
from me, everything I ever loved! But Imma make sure we even." “Part of the journey
is the end.” In 2019, both Game of Thrones and Marvel faced a daunting
challenge, thanks to their own gargantuan success. How would they wrap up years-long
sagas in a way that would satisfy fans who had invested
a lot of time and emotion? The two actually made similar choices
in their broad strokes. The death-like super-villain
is defeated, a beloved main character
dies tragically, and we’re told that all the
bad things we’ve witnessed had to happen for everything
to work out in the very specific and intricate way it was supposed to. “Everything you did brought
you where you are now. Where you belong.” “I went forward in time
to view alternate futures. To see all the possible outcomes
of the coming conflict.” “How many did you see?” “Fourteen million, six hundred
and five” “How many did we win?” “One” Yet beyond this, there’s a very
obvious way in which the two diverge. Endgame holds a 95% rating
on Rotten Tomatoes, while the last season of Game of Thrones
provoked outrage from fans, and a petition to redo the
last season entirely got well over a million signatures. One explanation for the difference
in their receptions comes down to the importance of harvesting the
storytelling seeds you plant In our Endgame video, we talked about how the movie
does this very successfully. Numerous payoffs, from Captain
America proving himself worthy of wielding Thor’s hammer, Mjolnir, to the satisfaction
of finally hearing, “Avengers assemble” make the film feel like a celebration
of the first eleven years of the MCU. Game of Thrones likewise has lots
of full-circle moments “Love is the death of duty.” “Sometimes duty is the death of love.” But the show also plants seeds
that it doesn’t harvest in the end, despite heavily emphasizing them, and the many fan theories
about the Night King’s true purpose apparently read far more meaning
into the story than was really there. Moreover, fans’ anger at Daenerys’
dark turn underscores that, while the seeds of her potential
tyranny were planted along the way, they weren’t tended in the right way. Both Game of Thrones and Endgame
conclude with a final shot that’s understated and quotidian, compared to the fight sequences
and thrills they’re known for. But only one of these moments takes advantage
of a long emotional set-up. “I’m gonna need a rain check
on that dance.” The second, even more important
reason why Endgame succeeds where Game of Thrones doesn’t
is about honoring storytelling tone. Marvel stuck to its trademark tone of cheerful, mischievous humor
with an underlying earnest optimism. "I think I'm having a panic attack." "Get it together." The MCU had never killed
off a main character before. Yet the movie makes Tony’s
self-sacrifice feel life-affirming, meaningful and earned. So in spite of its painful subject matter,
which could have made for a dark, gritty movie divorced
from the rest of the Marvel canon, Endgame managed to bring out
the sincere emotion and playfulness that have always defined the MCU. "I'll do you one better. Who's Gamora?" "I'll do you one better. *Why* is Gamora?" Meanwhile, Game of Thrones
gradually abandoned the tone that characterized its
first six seasons. “If you think this has a happy ending,
you haven’t been paying attention.” The show was originally known for
its take-no-prisoners style where no character’s survival
was certain. “The Lannisters send their regards,” but this season drew complaints
of plot armor, as main characters implausibly
survived outrageous dangers until almost the very end. In a show that once understood
the power of giving audiences what they don’t think they want
the final season prioritized moments and plot-lines that were perceived
as fan-service-y. The Game of Thrones of Tywin Lannister
was a world, like ours, in which brutality and injustice
weren’t easily defeated or solved, "Burn the villages, burn the farms, let them know what it means
to choose the wrong side." because they’re inside of us,
fundamental parts of human nature which inevitably come into play when one person gains control over another. "Explain to me why it is more noble to kill ten thousand men in battle than a dozen at dinner." But the ending of Game of Thrones
leaves us with a sense that Westeros’ problems have been
more or less cleared up. “From now on rulers will not be born. They will be chosen. This striking absence of conflict
and danger as we say goodbye to the Seven Kingdoms is jarring. That’s just not what
the Seven Kingdoms viewers fell for. “When you play the game of thrones
you win or you die. There is no middle ground”. One of these years-long epics closed
its latest chapter in victory because it continued in its own voice, "You trust me." "I do." and it built on the structure it had spent many earlier chapters
establishing. The other epic was harshly criticized because it stopped trusting
its original voice, “I choose violence.” abandoned its mission
to challenge viewers, and tried to morph into something
it expected would please and impress. The fact that both of these stories have captured viewers’ imaginations
so completely is a sign that they’re tapping into something
profound in our modern zeitgeist. On some level, they’re speaking
about today. "We can learn to live
with the Wildlings or we can add them
to the Army of the Dead." "More connects us than separates us." Through their set-up
of gathering characters together to fight Thanos and the Night King, both Game of Thrones and the MCU
send the message that we need to overcome our infighting and band together to defeat
threats to our very existence. "But together we can beat them.” "How were you guys planning
on beating them?" "Together." These non-human, merciless bad guys may stand in for contemporary
challenges like climate change. Still, in both stories,
once that danger is vanquished, the focus turns back to the
characters’ interpersonal dynamics, highlighting the reality that
our human nature is to fixate on these power plays
and squabbles amongst ourselves. Most fundamentally, both of
these epics are investigations of exceptional power and whether it’s possible to
use it responsibly. “If we can't accept limitations, if we're boundary-less, we're no better than the bad guys.” "She chose an advisor
who will check her worst impulses instead of feeding them." This striking thematic resemblance suggests that these stories are
coming out of a potent current anxiety that power is becoming
increasingly concentrated in the hands of fewer super-rich
and influential bodies. And the dangerous magic we witness
corresponds to the fear that select individuals could
have so much control, their dominance would feel insurmountable to the rest of the people. "Lannister, Targaryen,
Baratheon, Stark, Tyrell. They're all just spokes on a wheel. And on and on it spins,
crushing those on the ground." “What would you call a group
of US-based, enhanced individuals who routinely ignore sovereign borders and inflict their will
wherever they choose?" On Game of Thrones, the destruction
of the Iron Throne symbolizes that power is dangerous
when it’s concentrated, embodied in a seat
for only one person to sit on. The MCU also underlines that
those in power can do great harm, even when they have good intentions. “Who's going to avenge my son, Stark? He's dead. And I blame you.” Yet it ultimately concludes that a collection of benevolent people
who are all on the same page can wield power in the right way. It even suggests that
this confederation of super-powerful good guys
is necessary to defeat the malevolent forces that
pose an existential threat. “The idea was to bring together
a group of remarkable people, see if they could work together
when we needed them to, to fight the battles that
we never could." Of course, the problem with
this argument is that the equivalent of this selfless superhero band has
yet to materialize in our world. Overall, both stories underline
that power must be shared, yet, intriguingly, they don’t give
us visions of democratic equality. Instead, they conclude that
our best bet is to place our trust in a smaller group of talented elites
with the right motives. "I don't want it." "And I don't want to be king." It’s too bad that Game of Thrones
didn’t stick the landing like Endgame did. Still, if we look back, these two sagas did an admirable job
of integrating sophisticated thought and social commentary into wildly
popular, mainstream entertainment. "Do not become what you have
always struggled to defeat." "I've learned from my enemies,
beat them at they own game." "You have become them!" And they pushed their mediums by
creating interconnected story worlds of unprecedented magnitude, beyond what movie and TV audiences
or creators once thought was possible. Through these many beloved characters whose lives overlap
in unexpected ways, they plant a beautiful idea in us: what if we are all connected in
a greater way than we even know? “Mr. Stark, you’ve become part
of a bigger universe. You just don’t know it yet.” "We are part of something
larger than ourselves." 