Here’s a weird question. How would you describe my channel? I asked a few of you on Twitter, and received
quite a bit of varied feedback. “The common man’s video essayist” “A grab bag of interesting videos” “Videos about information I didn’t know
I wanted to know” “clickbait” “A mixture of seemingly unrelated topics” “Visual wikipedia articles” "passionate filmmaker who makes high quality
videos with questionable research" "Indie film maker downgraded to indie video
maker" Even, “Bearded guy from Missouri making
interesting videos about obscure stuff.” Over a hundred responses later, and the general
consensus seems to be - there is no consensus. I suppose this is by design. I’ve purposely tried to avoid a regular
routine on my channel, focusing instead on a plethora of different topics and subject
matter. One week we’re investigating ink cartridge
scams, the next, the study of traffic flow. Then, how the government protects against
counterfeit currency. Then, I’m off to LA to watch a Harry Potter
parody stage play I inspired? Later, a VR video about VR? An interview with an award-winning independent
filmmaker, and then a behind-the-scenes snafu during the production of Toy Story 2. Did I mention I held a workshop that nobody
came to? So, yeah - how EXACTLY would you classify
this channel I’ve been slowly yet surely building for the past 12-odd years? I don’t know. And, lately, at least, that’s really been
bothering me, for some reason. I’ve released over 40 videos in 2018 - I
had originally planned for just 20. I’ve had some hits, and some misses… some
praise, some criticism - I mean, nobody’s perfect, right? It’s been a LOT of videos, though, and as
I head into next year and start considering what my channel will look like if I’m lucky
enough to keep doing this, I find myself thinking less about the videos that were popular, and
more about the videos mattered. Because, a dirty little secret of mine (and
for A LOT of YouTubers, I’m willing to guess) is that, the videos I most enjoyed making
this year were often the least popular. This is dedicated to the videos that meant
something. See this graph? This is the average first week performance
for every video I’ve ever released on YouTube. Combine all the hits and all the misses and
you get this approximation of average performance. If I release a video and it performs above
this area, it’s been an overwhelming success. Anything below it has performed poorly. The challenge is to stay above this threshold
with everything I make. (Of course, the more I do that, the higher
the threshold becomes.) Maybe it’s because of my background in local
television, but I’m a stats junkie. I like crunching numbers, deconstructing ratings,
and playing around with programming analytics - weird hobby, I know... but one of the cool
things about YouTube nowadays is that I can track that abundance of data with my own channel. Occasionally I have video sponsors, and companies
are interested in that data, as well. For better or worse, we both share a common
goal, and that’s to get more people to watch the stuff I make. The "holy grail of YouTube" is to find stuff
that you enjoy making that stays above the threshold. In other words - videos you love to make,
that people love to watch. Despite the fact that my channel has had its
biggest growth this year, I still feel that this is something I’ve yet to master. It’s pretty obvious to see. My view counts vary wildly from week to week. Sometimes I’m getting over a million, sometimes
I barely break 50,000. Sometimes… *crickets* And while this is due in part to the varied
subject matter on this channel, I also can’t help but wonder if it’s because I can’t
quite figure out my own holy grail. The most successful video on my channel was
made in an afternoon as a joke, with very little work put into it, yet it’s the thing
I’m probably most known for. If I wanted to, I could have just released
a whole slew of these types of viral parodies and shot up the YouTube charts. In fact, several people who make a living
as YouTube Gurus advised me to do just that: change the name of my channel and make that
my “schtick”, but... compared to several others, that video certainly doesn’t MEAN
anything to me. And while an entire series of those videos
might have gotten plenty of clicks and maybe even made me plenty of money, I’m not sure
I would have been challenged or fulfilled creatively by making them. After all, what good is having a successful
channel, if My heart isn’t actually in it? Buuut on the flip side - what happens when
the videos that mean something are my least successful? This video I put together with one of my sisters-in-law
was certainly one of the most fun I had making this year. It’s one of the lowest viewed. Shenmue’s Greatest Moment was the one I
had the most fun writing. I even crunched the production time with two
all-nighters to finish it in time for that game’s rerelease on PC and modern consoles. It was even lower. Revisiting my Childhood Comic Book - another
video about a story close to my heart... evidently didn’t connect as much as this video about
diverging diamond interchanges. Now, that’s not to say that I’m not grateful
for the audience that I have. I am. Nor am I suggesting that people who flock
to videos like this are somehow “watching my channel wrong”. They aren’t... I just wonder sometimes if there’s a disconnect
between what you all want to watch and what I want to make. Or, maybe I’m massively overthinking things. I make a lot of videos, and not all of them
are going to be successes. It’s probably as simple as that. After all, THIS video about my failed workshop
was one of my most popular this year - and it’s also one of my favorites! Every now and again the stars DO align, and
I’d like to figure out how to make that happen more often. Now, don’t get me wrong - this isn’t a
signal that I’ll be massively overhauling everything about my channel in the coming
year. I'm not gonna be doing any drastic changes. I’m not starting a vlog, and this isn’t
a cliche manifesto about creative integrity. I guess as this year comes to a close, I just
wanted to share the thoughts going through my head, and to get yours, as well. Here’s what I know. I know I like making videos. I know I have an incessant need to tell stories
through them. And, I know that the stories WORTH telling
AREN’T determined by analytical thresholds like this. Sometimes the best story will be above it,
and sometimes (perhaps most of the time) it will be below it. Regardless of the metrics, I know a lot of
people are watching now, way more than last year, way more than I deserve, and in 2019,
I want to be better about the stories I choose to tell. Some of them might interest you, some of them
might not, but I hope you’ll stick around from week to week and upload to upload as
I share them with you. I think I’m going to stop worrying so much
about this stupid graph. I think it’s high time that I start looking
beyond it. To stop worrying about fitting into some predetermined
mold that’s algorithmically proven to be successful. In 2019, I’m going to try and make more
videos that mean something. Because, frankly, the lazy-cash-in over-the-top
cynicism and faux-outrage-driven stuff being pumped out by a lot of people today has become
so uninteresting and monotonous that I find myself numb to all of it. Everyone’s always upset about something
on social media or, in the entertainment realm, trashing the latest blockbuster release - but
the noise of anonymous internet mobs has yet to ever inspire anything great out of me - and
focusing on making videos this next year to counteract that is at least something worth
pursuing - but I’ll need your help. As much as I want to inspire many of you to
pursue something meaningful in life, I’m hoping you can inspire me, too. I’m wanting to dedicate more time next year
to helping other people. Doing some actual good in the world, highlighting
worthy causes, and maybe spearheading a few, myself. There are plenty of small creators out there
who deserve a bigger platform, and I hope to introduce you to some of them, along the
way. I’m still going to cover obscure and interesting
stuff, but I’m also working on a big special something, and I intend to take you all along
for the ride. If those kinds of videos seem up your alley,
then I hope you’ll tune in. And I hope more than anything that you’ll
spend next year doing something meaningful, Hey - thanks so much for watching and supporting,
you guys have been awesome. Happy New Year, and I’ll see you soon. 