Wanna come with us? NEVERLAND, wanna join us? Okay~ Follow me~ On a Day Raining Cats and Dogs Where Are We~? From the Beginning,
Shushu is in High Tension Sis, jump! Guys...
(Panting) It would be great
if the weather was fine... Since it's raining, I need to sleep. Hi, everybody~ - So, why are we here?
- Why are we here? Hold on, Shh! This is the Shooting Set
for  Special Clip I hope we can have a good time
while shooting it! We heard you two made this song~ Very Happy Stand up.
We have to be polite x 2 One, two~ Hello~ I participated in this song... Shuhua>>
Again! - Organizing the Comment - 2nd Try 3rd Try 4th Try
(Succeeded this time) We're Mitchi, the writer
of . It's my first time
to write a song with Minnie. Actually, I was hesitant whether
to do it with Yuqi or not. It wasn't as bad as I expected, so... Yes, Ma'am. I think the song is quite good. But, if I did it alone,
I don't... (Hey, sis~) I don't think
it would be as good as this much. I said it wouldn't be as good as this much!! Angry! You Need to Hear Out
When Speaking in Korean We wrote the song thinking NEVERLAND. We put lots of lyrics from our masterpieces. And the choreography is fun, too. So, I hope you love
 in every aspect of it, please. Cute & Lively Songwriter Puppies Senorrrrrrrita~~~
Finishing the Interview with Minnie's Favorite Part Senorrrrrita! Hehe     Hehe We're in charge of the 'Senorita' part. Fried Tofu Rice Balls
in Charge of 'Senorita' Yontararak's Senorrrita Sounds So Yummy RRRRRRRR
I want to do it, too... Rice Ball Envies Fried Tofu's Rrrr Pronunciation Sis, teach me how to do it. (Watching Minnie's mouth shape) Shuhua loves it when I sound 'Rrrr~'. Which part do you give strength to? The tongue(simple). Where? Front or back? Up! Screaming~~~ Source_of_Screaming Soyeon Wanted to Do Waterplay Quickly Loading the Watergun with Water Silently (Gravely)
Let's go. Yuqi is the Target (Joyful) Waiting for Yuqi Hiding in the Room (Backpack 1) (Backpack 2) Confronting Between the Door I won't do it again! (Knows Soyeon Well)
I don't buy it! I really won't do it! Just go! Okay? She's Gone Anyway She's Waiting There Secretly (Full of doubt) Yuqi Convinces Soyeon Has Gone Tricked Again Yuqi's_Time_of_Ordeal Minnie & Shuhua are Watching It Happily I won't do it. Case Closed
Finally, Soyeon is Blocked Out Shrew Jeon is Excited After Teasing Yuqi Beijing Puppy is Appearing
After Changing the Clothes (Found the water gun) Song Yuqi Obtained the Water Gun (Confidently)
Come on! Q. Why is the shrew so confident? (A glass full of water) (Urgently)
I'll play with it by myself! (Please)
Don't approach me! Sprinkle~ What a Pity In the End, They Fought with the Watergun
for a Long Time Meanwhile, Soojin & Shuhua's Room is Peaceful Q. What is your favorite part?
I love Shuhua's 'Senorita.' Malteshu is Happy to Be Picked Shushu's Favorite Part
is Soosoo's 'Hey Senor' At first, 'Hey Senorita' was my part, too. Can't Miss It
Soojin's Senori~Ta~ Version (Seal Clap) After Doing Well, Soojin Alway Becomes Shy I don't think I could do it
in the recording room. I was ashamed to death, too. Recording Behind of Shuhua's Part Shuhua Tried Doing It
And Nich PD Loved It! Can You Rrrrr? No, I can't. Finally, They Finished Shushu's Part
with Laughing Sound I didn't know it was your laughing sound. (Shocked)
Really? I've just found it out. Through I-TALK Filming,
She Found a New Fact They Filmed the Special Clip
While Having Fun Time! Let me show you how to swim. - This is How Our Puppy Swims - <<Soojin
You're most excited, huh? While the Big Sisters' are Having Fun...
Where is Shuhua? Blank~ (So cute) With a Puffy Face,
She Hasn't Been Loaded Yet Shuhua... What did you do? I was in the room. I was guarding the luggage. To the end... In my dream. Anyway, I hardly slept. I think I slept for 5 minutes. I just slept for 5 minutes... Yeh Shuhua, You Seem to Have a Good Sleep... We Hope You Should Wake Up Soon... My legs are about to be broken. Squabbling~ I'll sit on your legs
after having a meal later. Oh, you're this much heavy
with the empty stomach? a.k.a Mitchi, Squabbling Harder Today We're very serious when we work. Yuqi is... Very serious. I'm a perfectionist. Because I'm a Virgo... Sorry, but we have the same zodiac sign. Yuqi / Virgo     Minnie / Scorpio Yeah... Kim Scorpio Minnie I think Minnie and I are like... (Intercept) The Relationship of the Two Yuqi Thinks
Love & Hate Each Other It means we love each other but we pick up a fight, too. We Fight Because We Love Each Other (I don't love her) Gosh... Really... (Copying)
Gosh... Really Stop copying me. Kim Minnie is an idiot. Yuqi is an idiot. Actually, They Get Along So Well (Keep copying) They're Best Partners Who Shout in Harmony A Break Time after Dinner Yuqi's Pen Beat Intensive Course Found the Talent
Miyeon is Following Well (Master of Pen Beat) (Speaking & Moving Hands
are Two Different Things) What're you doing? Snapping & Tapping (Giving up)
Student, go out. I can't do this kind of thing. Unexpectedly, the Dancing Queen
Can't Keep the Beat with Her Body Seo Soojin, a Girl Born for Dancing! For our NEVERLAND, though it's raining cats and dogs here, we're shooting the video hard,
hoping that they'll love it. Which scenes are you filming now? I just heard about it briefly, but they said the clip is for NEVERLAND, huh? So, I thought,
'Won't they be touched so much?' Any words you want to hear from NEVERLAND? (Thinking) (Hard)
The words I want to hear... I don't have anything special. We'll accept gratefully every word they say to us. I want to hear 'I love you'
more than anything else. Love ya~ Before the Shooting,
Soojin & Soyeon are Making Watermelon Punch (Looking Great) (Minnie Appears) Can I be of help? I'll cheer for you! Minnie is in Charge of Cheering
for Making [Watermelon Punch] Dance to the song for us. (Staring) Does it have to be that dance? Another dance? No other dance... Cheering Hard
While the Little Ones are Making the Punch (Beautiful Visual) Minnie>> (Amazed)
It looks so yummy. Yum~ Nom~ Minnie, you're here
to eat the watermelon, right? (Busted) (Shh!) Soyeon & Soojin's Punch is Ready Shall we go and have fun now? Wow~ Our vacation is over now! (Sad)     (Sad) Today Will be Left as a Good Memory How do you feel about it?
Say something, you two. How do you feel, Sis?
It was very wonderful for me. Because it was my first time to do it. We wrote the song thinking of NEVERLAND. So, I hope NEVERLAND loves this song much. I hope so, too. We also thank you
for writing the beautiful song. Since it's our first fan song, I hope NEVERLAND will love it more. NEVERLAND, we love you so much! NEVERLAND! Enjoy the song! Bye~ For NEVERLAND Who'll Be Sad
about Missing Shuhua in the Pool Scene Because I'm worrying about a thief here. So, I'm protecting my room. Not because you want to sleep? No, no~ She's Babbling Shuhua is a nice girl but nobody knows it~ (Miyeon Sis Appears) Miyeon is Sad
Because Shuhua Doesn't Go to the Pool I wish you can join us in the pool. Shuhua>>
I can't go into the pool. Shuhua>>
I'm not friendly with water. (The hand of lingering) I'll be back in 5 minutes. Shuhua>>
Don't hurry back~ I'll be back soon. Since I'm worrying about you,
I can't stay outside longer. Wait for me, Babe~ I think she'll be back in 1 hour. When the sisters get excited,
nobody can stop them. I'm the most modest girl among them. I'll protect you~ - This is the Behind Story of
How Shuhua Got the Puffy Face - 