(Cautious for the faint-hearted) This has been filmed 
after the safety inspection on the road This is too scary! A very dark mountain road The engine suddenly turns off What the heck is happening here? Luckily, the engine turns on again What is that? And disappeared again What would you do if you confront a ghost 
after a car engine turns off (A hidden camera in a hat) *Haeji-Daeji* a.k.a who has the best reaction (She thinks they are going to a cafe, but has never told where exactly the cafe is) Are we going to Busan?
(It has already taken for 30 mins on a car) We need to take a little bit further
(Yolo has told her that his friend is a big fan of her) Since he is a big fan of me, 
I should fix my makeup I need to fix my makeup, especially for my eyes I have also never been to the cafe before (Moving to the mountain road where is located outside of the city area) I have seen your friends since I was younger (Going to a place where there ain't many people) I guess the cafe is located where not crowded But he didn't tell me that his cafe is located inside of a mountain though... I guess this cafe is located this area 
to provide nice view I think the cafe is located in the mountain..wow (Yolo has already set up the navigation for the targeted area where the ghost will show up) (Haeji is still happy, but not know 
what's going to happen to her later...) (The road is getting more scary) The navigation tells that we need to go little bit further I guess this road seems right I just follow what this navigation says so But...it is not like a road Going further and further Should we go further? (Of course there would be no cafe) *You are now getting closer to the destination* The navigation says that we are now at the cafe but... There is nothing but only...abandon area.. I guess we need to detour There is no enough space to detour Can't we just turn back? (Yolo is driving to the promising place) There is only one way here I think we are at the wrong place We have even passed the destination too Do you think we should go little bit further? Where the hell is his cafe? Why don't you make a call to him? (Trying to make her turn the light on) - Can you find a thing for me?
- What thing? You would see his name card in there His name card would be in there (She is looking for a name card, but there isn't) - I can't find it 
- Is there not? (Yolo is finding the right moment to turn the light off) What the.. (Yolo is trying to turn the engine on) Where is his name card anyway? What on earth with this engine?
Isn't not working (Yolo turns off the head light on purpose) (Haeji is still finding the name card that does not exist) (That is not a problem...) Why the engine doesn't even work? What's wrong? (She seems get nervous now) (She seems to feel scary) (Yolo is actually doing everything 
but not pressing the break pedal) (She has not still figured out yet) (Let's get started a prank) (She gets shocked due to the engine sound) (Yolo gets scared too 
though he knows everything about this) (She can't even see the front) What was that? (Let's move to the next mission) Wasn't there something just now? - I saw there was something 
- Yes... There is not.... - There isn't anything 
- What's going on...? - I'm not the only who saw the thing, right?
- I saw it too There was something for sure, wasn't it?
What was that? Can't we just go back? (Detouring slowly) What was that just now... Wasn't that a person? (Pretending the engine turns off again) What the heck....
(She is holing Yolo's clothe tightly) What's wrong with this car? What are we supposed to do.... (Turn the light off on purpose) (I'm scared) (Why this engine doesn't work?) What are we supposed to do...? What the heck is that!!!!!! (The light turns off again) What was that? Oh...my...god... (Pretending to turn the engine on) (I can't open my eyes) Lock the doors first (Door are automatically opened again) Don't open it! (The doors are automatically opened 
since the engine is off) (She gets freak out herself 
to see a side mirror is moving itself) (engine is on!) Can't we just go back?
I'm really scared - Can't we just go back?
- Okay (She can't open her eyes) What is that?
I'm going to be crazy (She takes a deep breathe) (Oh gosh! The door) What the heck is that! It's coming! (The last mission was to open the door and run away but Yolo could not because she hold him too tight) What's going on!
(She holds the door tightly) Are you Choong-Ho? She is crying :( Hae-Ji!
It was a prank! (She's trying to calm down herself) I brought you here to take some relax and chill out This is the friend who really wanted to see you (She is speechless) (She gets amazed) This is too scary We were scared too when we came here to pre-examine this place for the prank How did you find this place anyway? We found this place on the internet with 3D view Let's move 
I don't want to be here too Let's move a place to get something to eat You did really good job 
(She worries about Yolo Choong-Ho) How long he has been here?
You dropped him here and picked me up? I was really damn scared! (Are there more?) There aren't more to be surprised
(*It's really dark*) Turn the light off first I have been here alone until you guys come (Thought she is on a roller-coaster) (This ain't over until the end) (Guess our guest is very satisfied) We have a good news for you
Do you know what it is? We have our new guest for tomorrow,
The guest is your friend, Jin-Joo - Don't tell her in advance 
- I would never and ever Hope this prank makes you get through this summer 
nice and easy Let's go to BBQ for a dinner That was really scary Let's go to somewhere bright Haeji-Daeji~ Everyone sings a song of Haeji-Daeji~ I can't spit a word Let's watch the best reactions with zoom-in What was that? Hang on for second There was something I'm sure there was something But there are not... - Hope I was not the only one who saw the thing
- I saw it too What was that?
Can't we just go back? What was that, for god sake Was that a human being? What was  that just now? What's wrong with this car? What are we supposed to do...? Damn it I think there is something wrong with this button too What should we do now? What the heck is that it? Shit! I can't open my eyes to see the thing Don't do that! What was that? Please...hang on - Engine is back 
- Can't we just go back? I'm really scared Please, make detour What was that...
I'm really going to be crazy Oh....gosh!!!
It's coming!!!! What the heck is that it! Oh...my...god!
Please don't do that! Thank you for your help all the time 
Special thanks to Hae-Ji! Please give your big love to Haeji :) 