Today is the beginning. So let's hope for a good start. TWICE, let's go! I wanted to show them to other parts of the world.
That is how much I am proud of them. I am convinced that they definitely have something
the other markets don't have. Here we go! Sana, you turned too much. Okay, and turn. To do it successfully,
I've been practicing all the time. At home, I consistently
monitor my performance. I go over the choreography
before going to sleep. I always practice the choreography. Doing all that is hard. It's a lot of work. The process of recording has many effects
going in like tuning or mixing. Some artists are relieved
to hide behind that. But these girls are
more than willing to monitor and analyze their singing performance
when they practice. It is nice that they analyze themselves like that. To the chest and back. How am I doing? Right now, we're trying to make our concert fun. So we've edited
the choreography and songs. We are trying our best
to change it here and there, but it's been changed a lot, so there is a lot to learn. It's very hectic. It's important to do it in one move. Don't go like this. Let us try it. If we sit down completely, we can't move. Let's try it. Like this. Let's start with one. Start with the pose. One, two, start. I wanted to show everyone. I didn't want to make
any mistakes, either. Every time we go to another country,
we have to keep practicing there. Once we're back, we practice here again,
and we repeat that because every concert is unique
for each country. We didn't even have time to think. It was so busy every day. Hello. -Hello.
-Hello. It's my first time
sitting on a chair here. The stage seems really high. I wonder if they'll be able to see us. All these seats will be full? It's amazing. I think it is. Really? It's all sold out? All the way up there? It's refreshing to see from here, and the large LED is so cool. It's very different. One, two, three! One in a million! Hello, we're TWICE. -Nice to meet you!
-Hello. We made a lot of changes. Our line of movements and choreography
were changed here and there. For example, the choreography changed
from standing still to moving around. We'll have to concentrate
during the concert. We wanted to show something new. We wanted to present a new performance. So we wanted to prepare a lot. As a result, each member got greedy. We talked about our individual ambition
and adjusted to that. That's why it was so exhausting. It's very different
from what we do in the rehearsal room. We had to memorize numbers,
and there are many changes. I'm a bit worried
if I'll be able to memorize it all. There are so many things to memorize, but I'm terrible
at memorizing the choreography. I'm a slow learner, so that's a bit... Even when I sleep these days,
I grind my teeth and bite my tongue. I must have been under a lot of stress. I think it's because I'm nervous. I'm worried about my health, too. When I wake up in the morning,
I don't want to look puffy. It would be great
if I' were to feel better in the morning. When I'm tired or feel exhausted, I don't want to show it to our fans. As a singer there's so many ways to mess up a
performance. It's scary.
Probably, the only way to overcome that fear is to gain confidence
through endless practices. That is the only way to stop being scared
and perform well on stage. We're going now. Be careful, please. -Where should Tzuyu go?
-Jihyo! -At the end.
-Tzuyu, come this way. Go for it! Go for it! It's 11:20 p.m. on May 24. We're starting our first run-through. Our fans, ONCE, are probably asleep,
all excited. We're working so hard on the rehearsal,
even when you're sleeping. Please check the earpieces
and the microphone. When we're done with the run-through, I think it's going to be
about 1:00 or 1:30. We'll go back home at...
I don't know what time it'll be. Still, for tomorrow
and the day after tomorrow, we're doing our best. We wanted to present a different vibe from our usual performance. We changed the choreography a lot. I think everyone tries to be cautious. It's different from our usual performance. We all have to make an effort. The stage is where singers and fans
become one. After your performance, you can’t say that the audience or the viewers
still don’t know you. That is where you have to show everything
you have and share it with the fans to become one. By doing so, artists and fans can become
one team, and that's why they practice. Thank you so much for coming and working
so hard from the early hours. Please keep up the good work
at the concert tomorrow. Thank you! -Thank you!
-Please keep up the good work! We always work on the stage. Sitting here like this, I'd like to see a TWICE concert here. YOU CAN BE AS HAPPY AS IN YOUR DREAMS I was able to complete my military service
safely, thanks to you. DEFINITELY NAYEON You are doing well,
and I always cheer for you. Thanks and good luck! We'll start soon. It's going to be super-fun. I'm so nervous. -It's okay to make a mistake.
-It's going to be okay. One, two, three! TWICE, TWICE, let's go! Go for it! Let's do it! Five minutes to go! Let's go! We went up to the stage by lift, and I was so nervous, waiting to go up. I was so nervous back then. Of course, I was nervous and anxious. My heart was racing like crazy. When we went up,
honestly, I was so nervous. I kept thinking, "Don't be nervous.
I can't make any mistakes." I usually wonder
what kind of people would come and sit in those chairs. That's what I think about first
when I go on stage. Here we go! After all, I think we owe our success
to the fans. Fans have overcome the
barrier of the media. Also, they have overcome the language
barrier. That is why we were able to go global. It's energy. Without energy, we wouldn't be able
to perform or have an exciting concert. It wouldn't be meaningful
to prepare the performance. The girl group, TWICE,
started a dream of world tours at the KSPO Dome. TWICE will start its world tour in Seoul, followed by Bangkok and Manila next month. The world tour will continue
in nine cities around the world, including Chicago in July. The Seoul concert ended today. We'll go and finish the world tour well. So, ONCE, please wait for us
just a little bit. Go for it! Bye! Thank you, guys. One in a million! We are TWICE! Thank you! Thank you very much. 