Hello and welcome to the hieroglyph episode
of Half as Interesting where I head to a museum in Britain to talk to people from France about
a language from Egypt to plug a game from Canada. Now, if it was 350 years ago and I showed
you this, it would mean nothing, because 350 years ago, people really had no idea what
Egyptian hieroglyphs meant. Nowadays, you still probably don’t know
what this means, unless you’re one of these three people or me so I’ll spend the next
three minutes going on tangents so I can turn this into a video. What you have to remember about Egypt is that
it’s really, really old. Cleopatra, for example, lived closer to the
moon landings than to the building of the Great Pyramids, and no, I definitely did not
steal that fact from Reddit. We’re not 100% sure where Hieroglyphs came
from, but by the Ptolemaic period, about 300 to 1 BC, the written language had basically
split into two—Hieroglyphic and Demotic. Hieroglyphs had existed for centuries, but
at this point they were mostly used by the elites and rulers as a form of official writing. Demotic was a much simpler writing system
used by the common people, so most of the population couldn’t even understand hieroglyphs. At the same time, Alexander the Great had
conquered Egypt so it was under Greek rule, meaning that Greek was the official language. Now, to the French, or more specifically,
this Frenchman—Napoleon Bonaparte. In 1798 Napoleon went to Egypt, headed to
Rosetta, found this rock, and decided it was his. But then the British came, found it, decided
it was theirs, and took it. It was then brought to the British Museum
in London, put on display, and then 200 years later a bunch of game journalists and YouTubers
had dinner around it. The significance of the stone was that it
had the same text in the three different writing systems of Egypt— Hieroglyphic, Demotic,
and Greek. Hieroglyphic and Demotic text could not be
understood, but Greek has been spoken and written continuously for thousands of years
meaning that this bottom section could be easily translated. And now for another frenchman—Jean-François
Champollion. Champollion started to try to translate the
Rosetta Stone in 1808 but he wasn’t making much progress because in the 5th century a
guy named Horapollo wrote a book about hieroglyphs which was basically completely wrong but,
since he was old and dead, everyone assumed he was right. The main thing that book said was that hieroglyphs
were ideographic, as in, each symbol represented an idea rather than a spoken sound. Mathematical signs, punctuation marks, and
even emojis, for example, are ideographic characters since they mean the same thing
in every language and they don’t correlate phonetically to spoken sounds. Most of modern language, however, is phonetic
where the symbols represent sounds that make up the spoken words. As it turns out, the hieroglyphic system is
a mix of both. The real breakthrough for Champollion came
by looking at names. Ptolemy, the king during the Rosetta Stone’s
inscription, was Greek, so he didn’t have an Egyptian name. Therefore, in hieroglyphic text, his name
was approximated phonetically. So, since we know what his name sounds like
in Greek, by comparing his Greek name and Hieroglyphic name, Champollion was able to
figure out what sounds the characters correlated to. That unlocked a huge part of the writing system
and then, from there, researchers were able to figure out much of the rest through context. So what’s the Rosetta stone about? Well, it’s ancient tax paperwork, and yet
it still manages to be more readable than a W-4 form. But now, the reveal. This hieroglyphic text translates to “Half
as Interesting,” but not literally. Despite our relative understanding of the
language, there aren’t exact translations for every English word. And now for yet another Frenchman, but this
one’s alive. This means “half,” this means “as,”
“but the problem was interesting.” That’s Dominique Farout, professor of Egyptology
at the Louvre. What he did to translate “interesting”
was phonetically spell “seba,” the Egyptian word for learning. Then, since “seba” is also the name of
a star, he put the symbol for a papyrus which means “idea” to clarify he’s not talking
about the star. Then, he slipped this symbol in here because
it’s the logo of Assassin’s Creed. “Funny, and it is protecting, so it will
protect you, and then, a man, because there is a man, here.” That’s right Domonique, I am a man, but
what we’re not sure about is exactly how ancient Egyptian sounds. Obviously, we have no recordings, so how it’s
said today is just an educated guess, “iripat, hatiar, imiranet, sarnisut, marira.” We know roughly how the phonetic parts sound,
but everything else is made up so speaking today would sound like nonsense to an ancient
Egyptian, “an ancient Egyptian would be really astonished by my accent and many things,”
(7:10) including the idea of a video game having real educational value, or probably
the idea of a video game at all I guess. 