(static crackles) (static crackles) - Sup, you beautiful bastards? Hope you have a (laughs)
fantastic Thursday. Welcome back to the Philip DeFranco show. And let's just jump into it. And the first thing we're
gonna talk about today is we had fighter and
entrepreneur, Conor McGregor, in the news for a not great reason. Footage has now emerged of him seemingly sucker-punching an old man. According to reports, the
video is from April 6th, the location, the Marble Arch Pub. As we see in the video,
and as TMZ Sports explains, Conor walked in and lined
up cups for bar patrons, looking to buy a round of his
Proper Twelve for everyone. That, if you don't know, is his whiskey. And then you see in the video, there's a guy that does
not want the drink. He refuses it, he moves the cup. Conor places another one in front of him. He refuses it again. There's then a jump in
time in the CCTV footage, but obviously things seem way more tense. Conor McGregor is saying something. The man turns away, and then Conor punches him in the head. And McGregor is then
removed from the situation. Now, regarding this incident,
actually back in April, the Irish Mirror reported
that police were investigating an assault claim against McGregor, saying that the violence was
preceded by a verbal exchange with the report citing
an unnamed source saying, "McGregor was being a show off in the pub and one man didn't like it and went up to have a word with him." With a second source saying
that, before the altercation, someone approached McGregor saying, "The Russian battered you," which, if you don't know, is
a reference to another fighter by the name of Khabib. He is a Russian fighter who beat McGregor in a
fight back in October. And I guess, regarding
that report, I would say, one, unless there's something
else in the CCTV footage, it looks like there is a discrepancy. It looks like the old man
who ends up getting punched was just at the bar. He or or someone else
might have said something. You know, there is CCTV footage
that we're not seeing here. We don't have the audio. Although, two, it is possible
that a Khabib comment could have really set McGregor off. I mean, business and money-wise, he seems to be doing fantasically, but the last fight he
won was against a bus. (boom) (boom) (clamoring) (crashing) Understand I'm not saying if the old guy made a Khabib comment that
it justifies being assaulted, it appears just to be another example of McGregor being unable,
or just uninterested, in controlling himself. And here's the thing,
I know that there are a number of responses
out there going like, "Ah, McGregor, he's lost his touch. He sucker-punched an old man, he didn't even knock him off his stool." I'm not gonna go that road. I will acknowledge that McGregor is a fantastic fighter, he
is a beast in the ring, and because he is in this situation, it makes him an even bigger bitch for sucker-punching an old guy. And then final thing that I'll say here is I think a lot of it does
stem from the fact that he probably feels untouchable. Given the end result of his
otherwise just insane actions, like when he attacked
that bus full of fighters, something that if you or I did, God knows what the
sentence would have been, but he got five days community service and then you wonder why he
feels like he's untouchable. And understand, I say all of this as someone who's been a
fan of Conor McGregor, but I'm not gonna get the
fact that I was a fan of his, that I was a fan of his story, his rise, his drive coming up, his expertise as both a tactician in the octagon, as well as an entertainer, blind me to the reality of the situation of who his actions reveal him to truly be. But that is where I'm
gonna leave this one, and of course pass the
question off to you: What are your thoughts around all of this? Then, in fighting news
where both people involved know that they're going
to be punching each other, it's being reported by
the Athetlic Boxing that an industry official tells
them that Matchroom Boxing intends to bring the
Logan Paul KSI rematch to the Staples Center on November 9th. Also nothing that it
will be a sellout event, which I really wouldn't be surprised by. The first fight, at least business-wise, was an immense success. They sold out the Barclay Center, reportedly 800,000 plus
purchased the pay-per-view. There were reports that they
made around 40 million pounds, which is about 48 million
US dollars, from the event. And, arguably, this could be a winner because I think there
were a number of people who were upset that there was a draw and they wanna see a winner declared. And, notably, both creators are as big, or even more popular, than they were when the
first fight happened. And I know I'll get some crap from this, I thoroughly enjoyed the
entire event last time. Even a bunch of the undercard fights were weird or interesting. But yeah, personally, I
hope to see this happen. Then, actually on the note
of YouTube slash business, YouTube announced a huge change today that is going to affect records labels, as well as a ton of creators. Now, in the past, we've
seen YouTube creators, and even very, very large creators, complain that their videos are being manually claimed by record labels because there was a song that kind of accidentally played in the other room, or someone kind of almost
hummed something for a second, and all of a sudden this record label that made a manual claim
was taking all of the money they were making from this video. Well, YouTube announced that
they are putting an end to that and it may get better or it may get worse. And the change is that company or person that is making this manual
claim on this audio snippit, they will no longer be given
the option to monetize, but they will still be given the option to prevent monetization
or block the video. In a Tweet, YouTube citing examples for unintentional audio, they
reference passing cars. For short song clips, they give an example of five seconds of a song. And also, YouTube notes
that this is separate from the Content ID system, where you get these kind
of automatic claims. And as far as the reason for this change, YouTube said, in a blog post, "One concerning trend we've seen is aggressive manual claiming of very short music clips
used in monetized videos. These claims can feel particularly unfair, as they transfer all revenue from the creator to the claimant, regardless of the amount
of music claimed." Right, and so this could be good, but it could also be devastating. It could be good because it is removing the monetary incentive for these companies to have
people that are just scouring any video for
the smallest thing that wasn't picked up by Content ID. But at the same time,
there is a question of, well, will it result in more videos just being fully demonetized or blocked? And as far my opinion on it, I honestly don't know
if it will be effective. I'm hopeful. On paper, it makes sense. You're taking away their ability to siphon money from YouTubers because of accidental audio playing. So if there was no money to be had, why would record labels continue to pay people to search for
non-egregious uses of music? But also, at the same time,
I've never heard someone say, yeah, those guys at the record label, they're super chill about their music in other people's videos. And so maybe, for some of these companies, it's more about making a statement. Although, I will say I feel like the PR here would be a nightmare. But, ultimately, we have to wait and see. A change has been made, now we wait and see how people react. But, ultimately, the more
that I think about it, the more I think this is going to be a fantastic and huge move. But, that said, of course I
pass the question off to you. And the first bit of awesome today, is we put out a brand new
Rogue Rocket deep-dive. And today, we looked at
this international issue you may have never heard of, where you have these hospitals that are holding patients hostage. After today's show, I highly recommend that you wanna check out that video but also, too, if you haven't
subscribed to the channel, I definitely recommend it. One of my favorite comments,
but frustrating comments, for the channel actually come
this morning from this video. The user wrote, "This should not be my first time hearing
about this but it is." And that's also apart of what we're trying to accomplish over there. Then Glamour gave us 100
years of girls' clothing, you got the Borderlands Are
Yours trailer for Borderlands 3, Bon Appetit gave us a chef challenge, we got my childhood hero, Stone Cold Steve Austin, on Hot Ones. We got a special trailer
for Dave Chappelle's new comedy special. The Infographics Show giving us the cruise missile from hell. And if you wanna see the full versions of everything I just shared, the secret link of the day,
really anything at all, the links, as always, are in
the description down below. And then lets talk about the topic that will be in no way
polarizing to anyone: Israel. So, back in July, it was reported that Israel was going to allow representatives Ilhan Omar and Rashida
Tlaib to enter the country. This, according to Israeli
Ambassador to the U.S., Ron Dermer, regardless of their support for the BDS movement. Which, if you're unfamiliar, is the Boycott, Divestment,
and Sanctions movement. And Axios describes it as, "A Palestinian-led boycott which says that it is working to apply
economic, moral, and political pressure on Israel until it ends its occupation of Palestinian territories, recognizes Palestinian
citizens of Israel as equal, and allows Palestinian
refugees to return." Also, it's seen as a
protest of Israel and, specifically, its West Bank settlements, which are considered illegal
under international law. And those who support the
movement compare it to the boycotts of South
Africa during apartheid, while opponents of the
movement say that it is anti-Semitic and undermines
Israel as a Jewish state. And this is a big deal because there was a relatively new law in
Israel where, essentially, if you had a foreign
official that supported, publicly, the BDS movement, they would be barred from
entering the company. But also, at the same time, if a member of U.S. Congress was denied access to Israel, that would be unprecedented. Well, we fast-forward to today and, like we've seen a lot
over the past few years, a precedent has been set. Israeli officials announced
that they would be banning representatives
Ilhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib, from entering the country. And the two of them
were scheduled to leave for that upcoming trip on Sunday. On that trip, which was
privately organized, reportedly Tlaib and Omar were going to go to both Israel and Palestine
to tour holy sites and meet with activists and
humanitarian leaders. But also there, there were no
official meetings scheduled. Additionally, Tlaib, who's family is actually from Palestine, was also planning to stay a few days
longer to visit her grandma, who lives in the West Bank. Now, while this move is unprecedented, it is also not the most shocking. There were reports last
week that President Trump had told is aides that he
thought Israeli Prime Minister, Netanyahu, should bar the two women from entering the country. Although, regarding that,
White House press secretary, Stephanie Grisham, denied
the report, saying, "The Israeli government
can do what they want. It's fake news." Although, this morning, in between Tweeting about China and blaming the media for what is happening to
the economy, Trump Tweeted, "It would show great
weakness if Israel allowed rep. Omar and Rep. Tlaid to visit. They hate Israel and all Jewish people. And there is nothing that can be said or done to change their minds. Minnesota and Michigan will have a hard time putting them back in office. They are a disgrace!" Then saying that the two of them "are the face of the Democrat Party, and they hate Israel!" So, Grisham can say fake
news but it seems correct. Yeah, notably, it was also
reported yesterday that Netanyahu was holding meetings with cabinet officials to
reach a final decision about the representative,
initially saying that they would announce their
decision on Wednesday, but they actually ended up postponing the announcements to today, after receiving backlash
from Democratic leadership in a few U.S.-based
pro-Israel organizations. They are reportedly warning them that this move would be inconsistent
with Israel's claim that they are a tolerant and open democracy. But then, of course, today came, and they made that announcement. Following it, we saw a lot of responses criticizing the move. Elizabeth Warren Tweeting, "Israel doesn't advance its
case as a tolerant democracy or unwavering US ally by
barring elected members of Congress from visiting because
of their political views. This would be a shameful,
unprecedented move." We also saw Bernie Sanders
Tweet that this ban from Israel "is a sign
of enormous disrespect to those elected leaders, to
the United States Congress, and to the principles of democracy", calling for a reversal of the decision. And in another Tweet, in part saying, "Opposing Netanyahu's
policies is not, quote, hating the Jewish people." Also, notably, we saw a number of U.S.-based Israeli organizations
criticizing the move. The American Jewish Coalition, which advocates for
closer U.S.-Israel ties, Tweeted a statement saying, "AJC believes that, out of
two less-than-ideal options, neither of which was risk-free, Israel did not choose wisely by reversing its original decision." Israel Policy Forum, a New
York-based Jewish organization, also shared a series of Tweets, writing, "Any sitting member of Congress should be welcome to visit Israel as
official representatives of Israel's closest ally and most critical source of
international support. And adding, "Denying them
entry can only serve to harden their current views, along with delivering an
insult to the U.S. Congress, exacerbating partisan divides on Israel, and creating a dangerous precedent. We strongly urge Prime Minister
Netanyahu to reconsider." Even AIPAC, which is one of the most powerful pro-Israel lobbies, Tweeted out, "We disagree with Reps.
Omar and Tlaib's support for the anti-Israel and
anti-peace BDS movement, along with Rep. Tlaib's call
for a one-state solution." Then also adding, "We also
believe every member of Congress should be able to visit and experience our democratic ally Israel firsthand." But, of course, there are also people who supported Israel's decision. The conservative commentator,
Steven Crowder, Tweeting, "If I'm not mistaken, Omar
and Tlaib's itinerary read "Palestine" and didn't
even mention Israel. They were going to actively
lobby against Israel. Bibi made the right call." Or the likes of Ben Shapiro,
called the move justified, but saying that this is still
a PR mistake for Israel. Fox News host and commentator,
Mark Levin, also Tweeting, "Israel is right to deny entry to its country by these two bigots." We also saw Netanyahu
release a statement saying, "As a vibrant and free democracy, Israel is open to all its
critics and criticism, with one exception: Israeli law prohibits the entry of people who call and
operate to boycott Israel." And Israel's Interior Minister
also backed up the decision, saying, "The State of Israel
respects the U.S. Congress, as part of the close alliance, but it is inconceivable
that anyone who wishes to harm the State of Israel will be allowed." Though, the Minister did say that he would consider allowing Tlaib
to visit her family. And, on that note, we saw
Tlaib respond on Twitter, sharing a picture of her
grandmother and writing, "The decision by Israel
to bar her granddaughter, a U.S. Congresswoman,
is a sign of weakness because the truth of what is happening to Palestinians is frightening." We also saw Omar respond
in a statement on Twitter, where she said, "It is an affront that Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu, under pressure from President Trump, would deny entry to representatives
of the U.S. government." And adding that the move by Israel is an "insult to democratic values and a chilling response to a visit by government officials
from an allied nation." But, ultimately, as I'm
recording this video, that is where we are. It's gonna be interesting to see how this situation develops. And, of course, as always, I'd love to know your
thoughts on the situation. And that's where I'm
going to end today's show. And hey, if you liked this video, be sure to like, subscribe, and share. Also, after today's video, if you're looking for more to watch, you can check out our
extra bonus news deep-dive, or maybe you just missed yesterday's show, you wanna catch up. You can click or tap right
there to watch those. But, with that said, of course, as always, my name is Philip DeFranco,
you've just been filled in, I love your faces and
I'll see you next time. 