Vision is arguably the most compelling human
sense. Words and stories and sounds allow us to imagine
strange beasts and faroff worlds, but seeing makes us truly believe they exist. And that's why we place so much effort into
correcting the optics of our eyes when they don't work - whether with glasses or contact
lenses or surgery. But if you're in a pinch, bleary-eyed or missing
your glasses, there's a simple trick that will allow you to see clearly - just make
a tiny, tiny hole using your fingers, look through it, and the world will become clear
again. This works no matter how blurry your vision
is -- take off your glasses and give it a try! Amazing, right?! But to explain this wizardry, we just need
to remember how seeing works. Light travels outwards from a source, bounces
off of objects in its path, travels into your eye and onto your retina, where it forms an
image. If your eye had no lens, light from a single
source would hit your retina in lots of places and result in a smeared-out mess - which is
exactly what happens when I take the lens off of my camera. A lens focuses that spread-out light back
into a single point, corralling it into a crisp image on your retina. And after a little excitation of light-sensitive
nerves and interpretation from your brain, you see. But wait! When we look at an object, the background
and foreground are usually blurry, because a lens can only focus light coming from one
distance away. If an object is too near or too far, its light
will again be spread out on your retina leaving you with a blur. Fortunately, muscles in our eyes allow us
to accommodate by squeezing the lens, which changes its focal length so we can see at
different distances - except when we can't, or when our lenses become damaged - in which
case we need glasses. Unlike a lens, a pinhole or other small opening
can focus light coming from ANY distance: because it's such a small opening, it only
allows light to come through in one place, and thus in only one direction from any particular
source. So there's no blur, and everything is in focus! If you're familiar with photography, this
is why using smaller and smaller apertures makes everything in your photo come into focus. Of course, small openings like pinholes and
camera apertures create crisp images by blocking rather than focusing light, so the images
are much darker -- which is a major reason why we use lenses rather than pinholes for
glasses, telescopes -- and eyes. And yet, in a pinch, looking through a tiny
hole made with your fingers can help  