Heads up: this video will be a *little bit
different.* A couple of things are changing. I spent the last year writing my master's
dissertation while I took History lessons in the afternoon, and meanwhile I was hunting
for a job in the law field. After a whole summer of testing and interviews
I just got the news last week that I got the job. But why is this important for you? Because my learning journey is going to change...
a lot. So, first of all, I will have to pause my
History degree; since this is a full-time job I'm not sure how I would be able to manage
classes that take place during the day so I am going to wait to see when it will be
manageable to continue this degree. However, if you've been around for a while,
then you are already aware that I absolutely love learning new stuff. I decided then that I would initiate a solo
learning journey and I will be focusing largely on languages. The goal here will be to learn three languages
and incorporate that type of studying into a regular schedule. I will study those solely on the basis that
I enjoy them and not because they will be particularly useful for my professional life. I want to share this new challenge because
I believe that it can give you some insight on whether it is possible to learn new things
while you have a full time job and also while you are managing a small business or engaging
in a side hustle, which in my case is this YouTube channel. The purpose of this challenge will be to give
you some tips, shed some light on my routines and basically just update you on my learning
progress and whether it's too hard or actually manageable. My experience here on YouTube is seeing most
creators abandoning full time jobs to do YouTube only, and since I'm doing the opposite, I
think that sharing my experience can be positive to some of you. In my opinion having a job shouldn't only
be a stepping stone towards starting a business. Some people actually want to pursue something
in their field of studies and I think that should be celebrated and not frowned upon. Also, I truly believe that you can only produce
content that has a reflection on your current lifestyle; as much as I love making YouTube
videos, it's impossible for me to constantly make content that doesn't have an immediate
applicability on my life. I prefer to put content out there that feels
organic to me than using the same formula over and over again. So if you know other YouTubers who work full-time
jobs and share their experiences on their channels, please name them in the subscription
box because god knows I'm going to need advice. So the plan here will be to learn three languages
with a variety of sources and methods; I will have a main textbook, I will be using Duolingo
and I will also access other materials and resources like sound files, progressive reading
materials, and workbooks. Instead of establishing hard learning goals,
my main purpose will be to engage in a regular learning schedule. After that routine is established I will look
into creating a goal list that keeps me on track and also creates a sense accountability. I will be sharing updates on this challenge
or journey ideally once a month here on YouTube and I will also keep on uploading once a week
per usual but you'll probably see the contents here varying a bit - I will also be talking
about routines, habits and other productivity related things. Since my job will probably involve a big amount
of studying, the note-taking, planning and organising stuff will keep on coming. Most of the editing is going to be delegated
to a big friend of mine who also has a channel on YouTube which I will link down below, and
that is why you can still expect regular content here. If you're also embarking in a self-learning
journey yourself, you can use the study planner that I shared last week, which is basically
a tool to organize and write study notes, plan for projects, index files and do anything
that is related to studying or other types of academic related organization. I will also list down below a video playlist
that I believe can be quite helpful, and also a list of YouTube creators who give advice
on productivity and motivation and have great tools and resources as well. Also, this self-learning challenge is supposed
to be experimental. The goal here is to try different types of
learning, routines, note-taking techniques and organization methods and show you the
results. I will tell you what works and what doesn't
and that insight is supposed to help you out knowing if something can work for you or not. code that gets 10% of Dashlane Premium for
anyone who clicks that link. 