Back in 1989, a guy by the name of Igor Dmitrovsky
filed the paperwork to incorporate a small little business in the state of New York. This company would enter the metal cylinder
organism transport business under the name Baltia Airlines. The airline was to fly from New York, US to
St Petersburg, USSR—that’s a throwback. In the late 1980’s and early 1990’s, the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics was starting to become less united, soviet, and socialist. Simultaneously, the US and USSR were starting
to get a little friendlier with each other. The USSR even kinda, sort of, maybe supported
the US and its allies’ group project of obliterating a few thousand of Saddam Hussein’s
closest friends in the Gulf War. How we got from Baltia Airline to Saddam Hussein
in a few sentences, I’m not sure, but I am sure that, with these big boys’ cold
war being more of a slightly chilled dispute at this point, a treaty was signed that allowed
for more flights between the US and USSR. With that, Baltia saw an opportunity to snatch
up some of the routes before others did and was somehow granted approval to be the only
US airline to operate flights to St Petersburg, Riga, Kiev, Minsk, and Tbilisi. “Cool, cool, cool,” said Baltia. “What was that the thing we needed—right,
moneyyyy!” Hence Baltia started the, “please give us
money,” phase of business establishment and did I mention it’s now 1991? Baltia hired an investment banker—a job
with the description of, “you give me money and then I’ll find you money,” but then,
curveball, there’s a coup in the USSR! It failed but still, to this, investors went,
“ehhhhhh, maybe I’ll invest in an airline not entirely banking on operating to a place
where there are active coup d’état attempts. For example, like literally almost any other
airline in the world.” So yeah, Baltia didn’t get enough money. The only real thing that they had at the time
was a small office at JFK Terminal One in New York. Oh, and then the Soviet Union collapses. Anyways, five years of nothingness passes
and then Baltia finally has a little more luck getting money. At this point, they’re ready to get going. They register with the DOT, they set up at
JFK Terminal 4, they start getting FAA certification, they do all the other initialism related things,
and they even buy some airplanes—two former Cathay Pacific 747-200’s. This probably seems impressive but you can
actually get old airplanes like these fairly easily. Basically, they cost so much to keep in working
order that airlines will sell them for next to nothing, at least in airplane terms. For example, this website has a 747 for sale
for only a few million dollars and they do go for even less. My kickstarter to become the world’s first
YouTube channel turned budget airline is coming soon. I’ll call it, “Half as Airworthy.” Anyways, now with a plane, things were looking
up for Baltia. To raise the final funds needed, the plan
was to list publicly on the NASDAQ stock exchange. Unfortunately, the listing process was so
disastrously mismanaged that they got no money and, for a period of two years, they actually
were not sure whether they were a public company or not. I know that sounds ridiculously made up, but
this is according to the company’s official DOT certification application. Anyways, for the next decade and a bit they
keep looking for money and they always got some, meaning they did have investors, but
never enough. The other issue is that they tried multiple
times to get FAA certification, which is needed to fly, and always failed. At points it looked like they were getting
close to flying, even going as far to train flight attendants in 2014. They had gotten rid of one of the 747’s
already but still had the other. It was around this time that they realized
the St Petersburg plan was maybe not as genius as they once thought. There are zero flights from St Petersburg
to the US and to think that Baltia was going to fill one of the largest planes out there
with passengers on the non-stop flight was absurd. There just isn’t the demand. So, new plan. They were going to lease some small regional
jets, set up a hub in Baltimore and fly hourly to Trenton, Islip, and Albany and what was
the reasoning for this route structure? Baltimore, BAL; Trenton, T; Islip, I; Albany,
A. They literally chose their route network based off their name. Tens of millions of dollars had been invested
in the company at this point and this 100% is not a joke, at least it’s not my joke. For some strange reason that plan didn’t
go anywhere, they tried and failed to buy a small airline that actually flew, they rebranded
as USGlobal Airways, the security and exchange commission caught on to their shenanigans,
filed charges against their executives, and revoked their ability to sell stock, but they’re
still going at it! USGlobal Airways has a website, executives,
investors, and all and their goal is now to start flying between Stewart International
Airport, near New York City, and Europe. Their website says, “USGlobal Airways strives
to establish itself in the airline industry as the United States’ premier international
and customer-centric air carrier.” Points for optimism, I guess. By now, Baltia/USGlobal has been labeled by
many as a scam. At the very least, its investors have not
seen great returns on their investments. 