Where is this beautiful site? Here is the music video set of COVID-19 prevention. Start was me and Su A! We finished to film, It was so fun. I don't know if it was MV recording or just filming our play. It was fun! First start of Dami and Su A Cover your clothes with a cough! Whether act or often life There's a tiger character. When Ji U doesn't wa... not we... No wear, wash. Doesn't wash her hands and tend to touch, Tiger says "No!", that scene and I am, when the tiger is dancing beside me, I'll wash my hands joyfully. I'm waiting for that scene. Ji U is checking her act with Su A (Burst LOL) Ji U's acting time! (Hi~) (Fighting!) Ji U is acting while imagining a tiger (Acting is difficult) Ji U's daily choreography teacher, Su A Anyway, thanks to our Su A, I became a trouble once. Because I was wrong. But she was doing well. Something familiar appearance It feels that I can hear 'Love Shake' Recalling memories It was good memory... Su A is filming coming back to Dreamcatcher! I'll wash my hands Recording with CG Tiger Wash your hands under running water for 30 seconds. The floor is flooded. (Embarrassed Su A) Su A's How to play alone Imitate this at home too! Su A's individual cut is ended! Thank you~! How about Dreamcatchers in the waiting room? Siyeon and Yoohyeon's shop is opened That's mine! Now, this is I... I... Sorry~! Admire at her makeup So pretty! Line is about this long... No, some more? (Yoohyeon is drawing line) Open your one eye. Just right eye... (Burst LOL) No, you have to close this eye. (Strict) You can't do this? Relax eye(?) of your lips(?). Lips LOL Not lips. Siyeon and Yoohyeon's shop is full of laughter Relax your eyebrow~ Members are doing talent show in front of Leader Ji U Pierce! Rub! For Ji U's happiness! This Unit is Yoohyeon and Ji U This... while we're as Dreamcatcher, It's our first time to do this bright thing. It's a little bit awkward, I'll do my best. I need to warm up first. Give me a piggyback. No! You really... OK. I'll give you a piggyback in the air. Start! Hang on me. Try hard Everyone. This time, Yoohyeon is reminding 'Chase Me' Do you remember this? Do I get longer than before? In the past, I can do this with tiptoeing. Am I already too big? Is it too late to go back to that time? I want to go back. I'll go back~ I'll be going now. (Fail) Here is not my home... I'll introduce my house. Follow me. (Fail) I'll really introduce this time. Here is my real home. It has really big door. Don't be surprised. (Well...) The house reject Yoohyeon Monitoring Handong's stage Wow, eyebrow~! I'm so proud to see Dong doing well here. I miss you. Is this right? I like to miss you (?) Is this right? I love you~ Gahyeon's individual filming is also started! Gahyeon is going up to the box to match the height. Gahyeon is sad because of short height It's not the site where we always shoot MV, Not that atmosphere, so... Really embarrassed. Next is Siyeon It's fun to do this. There isn't any scene to smile at our MV. Big smile what is hard to find at DC's MV Siyeon's choreography teachers are Ji U and Gahyeon! I acted alone. Ah, really? You did~ I was~ yesterday~ Yeah. Ah, really? It was almost like talking with mirror. But I can see myself through the mirror. It was like talking with wall. I hope it recorded well. Shooting has already come to an end. Filming is over! Really great work~! Thank you! We were, for hours... Almost 26 hours? The shooting for 27 hours is over, everyone. I'll remove my makeup! Great job~! I have to go quickly. Thank you for your effort~ Bye, our DC note~ Really thank you to get together for all nigth long. Thank you for our staffs. Let's cheer up for tomorrow! Bye~ Everyone, really thank you for your effort. Everyone, let's all overcome COVID-19 with a positive mind. Everyone, Fighting! 