Good Hi Sara Hello and welcome to eight out of 10 cats does countdown a show all about letters numbers and conundrums This is the perfect show for people who've lost the remote control, but don't want to go to bed quite yet Okay, let's meet a nice place first up it's team captain Sherlock Sherlock has a very unique look and that look is a Russian guy in a YouTube video making a bear dance with a cattle prod Make money on the side you do your face on mine. I do Russian bears on YouTube He's right and Sean's teammate rub back in Public it is perfect for anyone who wants to know what it would look like if Boris Johnson had a baby with a beaver I forget some this evening. It's guess team. Captain Alan Carr Alan says he had a hard time at school because he wore braces which makes the question. How long did you wear braces for? Was it now? Comes a free braces I hid them on a caravan hooking Great Yarmouth. That's why there That's why they look like they're having a party. I hate them Nick Erica Shouldn't be alive are you trying to pull a caravan? Yes Yes, I was in the world's sake Enjoy Liana tonight, it's Sarah Millican Sarah's from South Shields near Newcastle what the people in South Shields are shielded from is longevity and jobs Allen apparently you had a bit of a drama last time you were here Will you go I to drag man a style of Xia they put you in the hotel next door I slept walked out the hotel Round the carpark and back into the hotel and it's amazing how quick they do. Check you in when you're there in your pants Awful pants, you're the ones from the market ID those no doctrine but honor those And I was just walking just walk around and our thought in a chance have you done this before you said no no No, I talking we sleep. I piss the bed by never Very odd very odd. Um Sarah you recently toured in Australia What was your favorite thing about being down under I like the danger of it? Because there's loads of things that can kill you there Oh, yeah, so every night I checked my bed. Every time we would change hotel. I checked me bed And the most I found was a couple of pubes Are you scared of any of that stuff pubes Scared of them falling out I'm scared of spiders generally so spiders that can kill me then. Yes, aren't you scared of spiders that can kill you? It's okay I was strangely fine with in Australia. I thought I would be fined and I was gonna be Alright, maybe you just don't have much to live for Did you go to Oakland Yeah, did you say that you must have done that say to that hotel in Oakland next to the bungee jump in Tower Yeah my god, they don't tell you you check-in Shawn yes. Have you ever saved anyone's life? Jimmy I don't think you become leader of a mountain rescue team for 15 years Without saving a few lives I go out at all weathers except sleet Or if there's someone good on the one show I said, no I'm not going They can wait till morning My Jewish tricky League days, isn't it saving life? I mean someone invented the Heimlich maneuver now They pay who you can't do that That was strange around the waist and pull them closer to you You know, I'm especially if you're a 25 year old lingerie model and you need to kiss the life. Forget it 55 year old bid man. Fuck her up Rob if you could ask any celebrity one question, what would it be? Well, actually I've always wanted to ask you a question I've ever found the right time. So maybe now's the right time Can you cry? No, I don't want you to now but do you have the ability to cry what is crying Chuckles can't imagine you ever just have you ever cried. Yeah, I think when I had to pay the tax Okay, Sara if you got a mascot Yes I have and when I was a kid about six or seven we didn't have uniform at school and my my mom put me in a t-shirt that said I love school and then underneath it said when it's closed because she's Joker I was so nervous about Being sent home from school because it was quite naughty that I talked the bottom bid in So I just wore a t-shirt that said I love school I've got the t-shirt It still fits Some really high waisted trousers Oh Rob you got a mascot. Oh, yes quite an international themed one. I got this one from Russia. I got this guy. Oh I've got it for my kids. He sings a nice little song itself makes me happy you wanna it, sir Oh Just the cadet some notes as well together Have you got a mascot? Yes, I do Jimmy I do I've always felt that nothing shows your true allegiance passionate support fondness for appetite for something than a football scarf It says if you've got a football the name of your football team on a scarf so, you know You must really like that that team and I thought well Why can't we do that with other things in our life that we like and like who for example? doesn't love gravy And of course if you like a particular TV show I mean the 8 out of 10 cats does countdown scarf Was a bit too long for a man of mine I'm perfect for spring watch I'm actually I'm actually banned from where they record it Because read throated Warblers were hatching and I was collective off It's a wonderful charm Yeah, I mean, I know Rob will be happy to wear this scarf because I know he's a big fan in fact, we all are we're all big fans of Krishnan guru-murthy Time to get rid of that snow fellow just have Christian Yes, hi I'm gonna wear make regular Murphy school. I love it Alan. Have you got a mascot? I'm very proud of this mascot. Absolutely. Love it. I can't wait to show you it it's over here. Thank you so much. Love Coughing is it? Well, you know I've got two love's in me life, you know, I love clock The more clocks the bear give me clock clock clock Morning overnight. I love clocks by also love Gemma Collins So I've made allen carr's Gemma Collins grandfather clock It's a CJ CJ say gasps It comes in two colors it comes in spray tan orange or leopard skin The engagement ring comes off and on so you can keep up to date with our Is it off and they still rotate they go around they sort of get stuck about dinnertime and elevenses I'm fat as we're looking to shit. Okay, and then you open out now. I love this bit that That inside is vajazzle if you want to give it a flick How you do it no And then on the hour every hour you get Now and also if you want The AC GC GC do I that's another one? I'm doing because this is a prototype and it's the alencar Gemma Collins Grandfather clock dancing on ice. We're on the hour every hour. She falls flat on her face You're not dressed up a surfer and the Halloween party Oh, yeah, do you say in the Daily Star crawl Allen puts on fat suit to mock gather. That was my own body Okay over in dictionary corner, it's mr. Swallow Mr. Swallow what have you been up to since we last saw you so I've been doing a shore and cold. Mr Swallow and the vanishing elephants not cool. It's finished now Like a magic sure and didn't go very well. I Think an elephant in the end That was one of the main problems With a company that specialized in hiring animals flat stage and so on we'd been assigned an elephant Haley Don't put in contact with an animal handler. Sue Dean sounds like I'm making these names up. I'm not Who was in charge of the Transportation the administration she did the insurance who had a vet book. It was basically a done deal Anyway, it cuts about three weeks before we're about to open and I'm not joking. So Dean Wright dies Yeah, no, no Will you laugh but talk about been put on hold? Cuz I didn't know I did love rely about another ten days or something and I just kept on sending her increasingly aggressive emails It's not getting out of office. Is it I have now died Fact about Sue Dean she'd never had a bounty imagine that imagine dying and never haven't had a bouncing Lived in there. Oh, wow. Did you ask me again? Sorry And with mr. Swallow, of course, it's Susie dense Susie your kids ever embarrass you with the way they use language and My youngest is really into ya as we all were that she's really into swearing with to be words so she's really interested in to what as to what all these words mean and She came home from school and said that one of her friends had used the C word In school in front of the teacher and hadn't got told off So I thought like I'd love to be really liberal. So I said, okay Well, what do you think it means and she said well, I think it's just really bad But three minutes I just said what what is the C word and she said carp and she you can get crap, right? Very cute. Okay. Yeah and in charge of the numbers, it's Rachel Riley When Rachel was younger, she wanted to be an architect, but that takes 8 years So why bother when you can just get a job standing in front of some alphabet fridge magnets? Rachel I believe you've welcomed some new additions to the the Riley family What do you got? My brother has got kittens. So I've now got kitten nephew's. I think we've got a picture of them One on the right the ginger one is called egg. And the one on the left is called RuPaul Just wait you see them eating of bird's head There is - in the eyes of innocent little bird Okay, the price the Chiefs we compete before tonight is this the countdown limbo sex Oh Okay, let's count down everyone I had time for our first game and it's Alan and Sarah to pick the first lot of letters and Vowel, please Rachel. Thank you Sarah. I Consonant, please See another continent, please Deep under the continent, please. Ah Trying to go for it love I'll have 3000. Uh A8 to country air to constant and and G okay for the first time today, here's the countdown clock Foxie You'll never make the Olympics Alan how many you won't believe this, but I've gotten home Boy wait and see Sarah how many I've got no Eyes Sean how many eight? Rob five What's your five it's great ironically Okay, Sarah you're creating Create in as well creating as well Shawn your mates reacting High points to both teams Suzy mr. Swallow, could they have done any better? He could have gotten through a seven you could get erotica a Nine, you could get erotica ng For another nine recording recording leaking What did you say we courting or Rico's recording we aren't only not now So the end of that both teams have eight points On to our first numbers around okay Shawn Rob what let's pick the numbers of the usual Two large or little all right up your street, right? We've got five six six nine 75 and 50 and the target 949. Okay your time starts now So the target was 949 Allen did you get it I got 950. Oh Yeah, sir. Did you get it 950 950 as well? Okay, sure. You get it I Got right Now I've got 950 as well actually no offense so you don't actually you know, I'm actually quite good at this Well, how did you get 950 6 plus 6 is 12 6 plus 6 is 12 and then 12 times 75 900 and then added 250 and then of so chuffed myself. I just sort of sat back and enjoy the music Jarrod did you do it the same way? I know I put one of the nines in front of the 50 In 59 and in the 50, yeah because I think it's it doesn't matter how you use them As long as you don't use them twice So that's what I did Allen how did you do it? I did it like Rob's okay seven points about James I wish L. Could it be done? Yes, Gerry just about if you say 75 On this thing still of it stuff is 25. You're gone backwards there. Yeah is 150 at the nine Right one five nine five nine Does that help in any one tugs it by the other six nine hundred? And fifty four is it sure is a quicker way, right? Okay, I'm doing a finish it off row yes take off what's left Because remote both teams are on 15 points Your teaser the roads are all files in the Cleary's that doesn't feel right that's odd piles. That doesn't feel right see after the break Welcome back the answer to the tease the words were odd piles the clue was that doesn't feel right it was of course Lopsided so both teams have 15 points and been playing in teams so far But this game is just for Alan and Rob. So Rob your turn to choose the letters. Sure Can I have two vowels, please? Hey, yep you Know I said so but don't worry To Kosmas, please Hm enough Val ate two continents C L and a vowel, please and Sure. I mean, I don't know I'm doing so I'll go by you. Yeah, the other one, please and Your 30 seconds starts now All right about a Scouts Brown Be funny if I hadn't had so much Botox and I could still move my forehead I Thought you just fell in the vampire, baby Was never a baby I was built Rob love you got oh, I've got I'm five five. Okay, Alan. I've got six but I don't know if it's allowed All this dotting is it not English? Okay, what's your what's your five robb maus? Why is that funny There weren't two F's I take it on you because you're a moron. Yeah Back and what is your whiskey he might not be allowed six Shalom? Mr. Suzy could have done any better yeah, as soon as he's found a good one and Is there for eight which is prior to the gray matter in the brain Alamos thalamus okay? So at the end of that Shawn and Rob have 15 Alan and Sarah have 21 Right Now sign for Sean and Sara to go head-to-head Sarah your turn to pick the numbers can have a Shawn special please Shoni special that's on the top They can you four little ones ten seven two five 125 and the target 585 okay and your time starts now? Okay, so the target was 585 Sara did you get it oh I've written down five four five You want to know how I got it? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Do I need to get bonus points for this? I mean you've made up your own target By a hundred Is five hundred at the 25 in two times ten is another twenty-five is five four five Did you did you get five eight five no, I didn't get five eight five I got It's quite hard to work out what guys Did I did 5 times 100? Okay. We're just working out as we go along Then I did 25 yo, yeah, that's lost in the mists of time. I got one the confused. Mr. Swallow. Did you get it I did Yeah. No, how did you get it? Um 100 plus 7 plus 10 times I 100 plus 7 plus 10 117 times 5 perfect Mr. Swallow Okay, time to go across the dictionary corner, mr. Swallow what have you got for us So and I I have basically learnt and how to memorize a deck of playing cards now this it this is real it didn't always work and but basically and Susie's gonna happen with this. That's alright. Will you see? Yeah, and can you just be honest you you've examined these cards before you've shuffled these as well? Not just me and just be honest. You're not gonna secretly tell me what the cans are anything like that, you know You know in on it in any kind of way. No, she would say that if she was in on it Don't take me long to memorize them and but it does and it does require complete silence, okay, right Complete silence, no, no because it's a tiniest things Did you confirm your memorizing the order of and not just the deck of playing cards because I can do that about looking at Yeah ice toe free I know and I'm genuinely trying to memorize and Rob and Why I want you to do Susie if you from the from yeah if you go from there oh My geez you if you look yeah, isn't it If I get it when I observe what look and move on to the next one, so King of Hearts Well, then, it's the I think it's a Jack of Clubs. Is that right Jack? Of course? Yes, then it's a seven or seven or speared. Yes, then the ten of hearts Yeah, then the ace of diamonds not the ears of diamonds. Yeah, then the four of spears I think yeah, is that right? Then the seven of hearts. Yeah, then the four of diamonds and the ace of clubs. Yes. Yes Yeah, and it's the nine of clubs, but it's the jack of spades Yeah, the queen of diamonds. Yeah. Yeah, not the funniest section is it? I'll tell you how it so it's basically it's the method of loci anyone can do that You can look it up So you have to peg it like so each count is like a person and a journey and you alternate journey person journey person So it's a queen of diamonds was so that's Queen of England to me I see you're going clubbing in Seven Sisters to that seven of clubs seven clubs next Yeah, and on stage on the club is Alan Titchmarsh singing Bohemian Rhapsody queen spirit Ten of diamonds. Yes. Yes, then the six of clubs. Yeah It's about the nine of diamonds for were clubs than the two of hearts. Yes. You're the seven of diamonds yeah, three of something free clubs for apart from House the nine of spades. Yes, the two of the so remember two spades neck and the Queen of Hearts Yeah, the three of diamonds. Yeah the queen of clubs I think yeah Isn't that nice the edge of house then is even the five of the six of spades the ace of spades and many survivors feared That's computed now Nine of hearts. Yeah, and the king of clubs. Yeah, and then the two of diamonds and all the cranky Jacky perhaps Yeah the three of spades and then the eight of speed and then the six of hearts and the ten of clubs in the five of Diamonds yeah, then it's the King of Diamonds. Yeah All of the Joker Yes Feedback I Love too long. No, I loved it. Sorry about the barriers. No, it's not a mob, but it is real and it genuinely is off-putting Okay, this goes on the moment Shawn and Rob are on 15 Alan and Sarah are on 22 And here is your teaser the words are red groin the clue is I asked for it that's red groin I asked for it see after the break Welcome back the utilities that worth while red groin the clue was I didn't ask for it was of course ordering Okay, before we go on a chance for our teams to win some bonus points I've got a selection of objects all of which are spelt with eight letters and all they have to do is identify them Okay, Shawn Alan Cumming Okay line fold on wicked excellent over the glasses or under I imagine that with about seven liters of Pinot Grigio Okay, all right so I'm gonna put you on your mark no No, okay you're there all right, so let's bring in the first eight letter object, okay, you just gotta identify this so very thick It's what's in them. It's in them. It's this one this lens Estrella Man what he's holding. Oh, it's holding. Okay Why is that what's at stake ba-ba-ba-ba-ba Don't hate makes one front. All right Gained weight in there is in there. Okay, Sony said Yeah You can use your tongues like lollipop Viki's horrible, I think she's not what they do Well L of 1 to 5 points Walla otherwise I think you overreacted slightly anything on this we maintained our dignity throughout Okay on the game Alan and Sarah you're don't choose the letters a Constant, please Rachel. Thank you. Sarah. L thanks love Bauer, please I a vowel please a Consummate please. And another continent. Please beat a vowel, please Ate a continent, please Another continent, please C and a Well, you choose what for the last hand. Okay, and thanks. Okay your tongues. That's Rob Should we have the bear do the day seconds your time starts now? I'm just God not man. You got five seconds to turn off the bear Okay, Sarah how many I've only got five five okay, I love how many I got six okay Shawn how many I've only got five I got quite distracted. I've got three Good lie. Yep Okay, Shawn amble amble nice okay, uh Sarah Oh clean claim okay Oh Malice malice yeah Okay, six boiling Mr. Swallow Susie, could they have done any better malefic? Okay, so the end of that Alan and Sarah are in the lead with 33 Okay time now to go across the dictionary corner, mr. Swallow what have you got for us so I've always been sort of fascinated by how to and improve your memory and In particular in terms of like learning like lists of information So what I've done is to memorize the wagamama menu, so and you've all got you should all have I think so basically I memorized the n the number that they've put against each dish and all the price of everything and or whether it's veggie are vegan There's even a little and symbol for anything that may contain shells are smaller bones. Oh my god So what you to just choose just name any side dish any sadder still go for it bang bang cauliflower Right Allen name any main dish that you would get any main dish at all go for it. Okay Shiro dashi ramen 31. Is that right? That's right Is that an answer? It's kind of like fusion language sometimes in it That's a problem and just to let you know by the way the food can arrive at any time. Why is that about? Delivery about 10 back to shootout in 15 different directions What I would like you to do I want you to choose any three dishes I want you to adult the price of those three dishes or kid. Okay, so you ain't got too long You've got the amount of time that it takes for me to sing that bit from Phantom of the Opera Where Christine day first returns from having visited the Phantom's lair and we'll just hear everyone's different reactions to that Miss Toya has returned. I trust him midnight all is well and truly burn where precisely is. She now I thought it best that she went home. She needed rest. May I see her? No, Monsieur She will see no one. Will she say well. She said I have a note. Let me see it, please. That's all you get We've got a total price yes or no don't tell what it is, but have you got total pain? Yes, right Can you just tell me what it was that you ordered Sid? Nuoc Cham - I said not tuna. Yeah. Yeah 67 are my yes, okay, and shitake donburi shitake danbury and Squaring that square rules that genuinely square root that square root that one do that We've done it about five point six nine five Mitchell something like that Other noodle shops are available, but mr. Swallow everyone The words are idle nuts the clue is how rude that's idle nuts. How rude? Welcome back the answer to the tease the words were idle nuts The clue was how rude it was, of course insulted okay time for our final letters game Shawn Rob your turn to choose some vowels And I yeah Oh E Yeah consonants, yeah Get rid of it then sighs got it you'll regret it. You've got a V instead You confidence please your 30 seconds starts now Oh Sure how many I've got a six Six, okay, uh-huh, Rob how many six six? Okay Alan okay. I got five Sarah six six. Okay. So Alan you're fine kappa Let's get to me Fine Sarah you're six driver driver. Yep to us. Do you just rearrange them in your own heads? I'm busy get Bob to do it Thank you flaw at last a bit of I cast Now it's okay Driver you Like this. Yeah Holiday Inn room to Porto being away Sure, well, don't you but I could devour Rob And then like our like a time Driver but quite positive change it so devourer six voice to both teams Would you ask if we could have done any bad Rob couldn't they have done any better? Yes, they could Jimmy Divorce for Seven That's an invitation Jimmy okay fingers on buzzers it's time for today's countdown conundrum No one's gonna get it we go Sponsoring now proposed it proposed a let's have a look A photo skills are swimming ball 540 Long Island and Sarah have 49 points Goodnight Mundy from 10 is back for CDs - in the man is chasing somewhat different dreams But there's no way he's letting his rivals get one over them Starfleet's flats is all new moore's next with a red nap and a Moffitt's Hardy and Scarlett and some exceptional vocals from Emily sandy You 