And NOW... YOU MIGHT BE A HOME SCHOOLER IF... 2018!!! (Woohoo guys great opening) You might be a home schooler if, there's two options: you either mention at every moment that you can that you were home schooled, or you never mention it at all. You might be a home schooler, if you weren't allowed to get a Facebook, Until Facebook wasn't cool anymore. *Snaps Fingers* You might be a home schooler, if you have very strong feelings about the education of your future children. You might be a home schooler, if you have money invested in the stock market, Before you have (had?) money invested in deodorant. You might be a home schooler, if you, begrudgingly admit that there MIGHT be SOME gaps in your education. Like, what is social science anyway? If you can answer most of the Jepoardy questions on Netflix. If you think being able to WATCH Jepoardy on Netflix is pretty awesome. If your family can't eat meals at your kitchen table because of all the school books that are strewn all over it, you might be a home schooler. You might be a home schooler if THIS has ever happened to YOU. (Josh as Public School Bully) Look at you-your such a NERD! Heh, I bet you can't even SPELL NERD, NERD! *Slap* Heh-heh! (Jordan as Big Head Kid) N! E! R! D! *Alarm Sounds* You might be a homeschooler if you have any amount of nostalgia for your local library. You might be a homeschooler if you don't have a Facebook per se, it's-it's a family Facebook. You all Share it. You might be a homeschooler if you've just now learned that most families don't use scrabble as a spelling curriculum. D: You might be a homeschooler if more than one person in your household knows how to juggle. And has ever, juggled a sweet potato before. You might be a homeschooler, if your mom is an active member of a Facebook group for moms in your neighborhood. If your family gets really, really, REALLY into cow appreciation day. If you've ever cried doing math. If you still don't really understand how high school works, you might be a homeschooler. You might be a homeschooler  if you've ever had THIS conversation. (Josh as Public School Ninja) So, what are you going to ask Santa for this year? (Jordan as Big Head Kid) Umm, Nothing, (Josh as Public School Ninja) Nothing? Why? (Jordan as Big Head Kid) Uh, well-umm, b-b-because of SOMETHING, that my PARENTS told me, I couldn't TELL you. You might be a homeschooler if you married the first person you dated. You might be a homeschooler if you didn't know what Alma mater meant, until you were out of college. You might be a homeschooler if you didn't know what Suma cum laude meant, Until you got it. You might be a homeschooler, if you don't even work for Chick-Fil-A any more but you can't stop saying, "My pleasure." You might be a homeschooler if NO ONE understands you. If you worked at mops in high school. If you have never been the recipient of a snow day. If your favorite love story is about a cheeseburger and a gourd. Or a cucumber and a manatee. You know, Veggietales was kind of interesting, wasn't it? You might be a homeschooler if there are TWO eras of your life. One: Life BEFORE the Nintendo Switch. AND TWO: Life AFTER the Nintendo Switch. 100% Perfection. *Kisses Switch screen* I love you. You might be a homeschooler if you've ever commented, "Messy Mondays? More like SLOPPY SUNDAYS, AM I RIGHT?" Very original guys. Yo might be a homeschooler if you've ever asked your parents how something worked and they said, Huh, that sounds like a good essay topic to me. You might be a homeschooler if American Ninja Warrior is the only show your whole family watches together. You might be a homeschooler if you are THIS close to convincing your father to build a Ninja Warrior course in the backyard. If you strategically shop ONLY while everyone else is at school. If your mom has a blog that makes substantial money. If your parents VERY hesitantly allowed you to play Fortnite (Josh as Big Head Kid's Dad) Son, what is this you're playing? (Jordan as Big Head Kid) OH PLEASE DAD NO! Don't-Don't take this thing away from me PLEASE! (Josh as BHK's Dad) That-that looks a lot more violent than Minecraft. (Jordan as BHK) Um, well, it-it, L-, it kind of is. I'll admit it. I'll be a good son, I'll be honest. It is SLIGHTLY more- action filled but, dad please if you trust me, I promise it will not alter my behavior. I promise. (Josh as BHK's Dad) NO. (Jordan as BHK) NOOOOOOOOO! Like, what is Social Science anyway? Oh isn't it social studies? Or is it social science? I've heard both. Social science. *Inaudible* What is social science? (Josh as BHK's Dad) NO. (Jordan as BHK) NOOOOOOO! *Laughing* (Josh mimicking Jordan) "It will not alter my behavior." (Jordan's Normal Voice) *Laughing* Alter. That's exactly what a homeschooler would say. (Yes this is true) (Jordan as BHK) D! *No Sound* *Laughing Oh hey guys, it's me Josh I just wanted to let you know that we still have those $5 T-shirts until the end of the day, so make sure you click the link in the description, or up here somewhere. If you, ah, want to know how to get a five dollar T-shirt. OK bye! *Inaudible* Okay. *Laughing* 