“None of us are free. We are men of
the Night’s Watch.” The Night’s Watch
represents both the value and
the pitfalls of duty in the Game of Thrones world. On this show where
so many characters are constantly guzzling wine,
sleeping around, indulging themselves, “I am the God
of tits and wine.” the Night’s Watch
is a stark contrast. These men live
an almost monastic lifestyle. “You swore
some stupid oath and now you can
never touch a girl.” And while everyone else
is out seeking glory, they have
sworn an oath to do the exact opposite. “I shall wear no crowns
and seek no glory.” They have
an important but totally thankless job:
protecting the Wall that separates
the realm from the dangerous,
unknown area beyond. “The Night’s Watch
is the only thing that separates us
from what lies beyond the Wall.” The Night’s Watch
may have been respected once, but by the time
the show begins it’s looked down upon,
as a dumping ground for the scum and
rejects of society. “I need him to
turn this bunch of thieves and
runaways into men of
the Night's Watch.” “I'm here to find men
for the Wall, see if there's any scum
in the dungeons that might be fit
for service.” Being sent
to the Wall is more often than not
a punishment. “I hope you
enjoy the Wall. I found it
surprisingly beautiful in a brutal,
horribly uncomfortable sort of way.” Before Joffrey decides
to kill Ned Stark, this is where Ned
is going to be exiled. “My mother
wishes me to let Lord Eddard
join the Night's Watch. Stripped of all
titles and powers, he would
serve the realm in permanent exile.” And on top of the Night Watch’s
bad reputation, their numbers
are dwindling. “There are less than
a thousand of us now.” The decline of
this military order mirrors the deterioration
we’re seeing in the rest of the realm,
where honor can be fatal. People have become
complacent and oblivious to the dangers they face,
and that’s why it’s so easy for them
to take the Night’s Watch for granted. “The Lord Commander
says we send more men, to man the wall.” "Perhaps he’s forgotten
we’re fighting a war? We have no men
to spare." "Most regard the Watch as a misguided, obsolete order
made up of useless outcasts. Admittedly,
the current Night's Watch is a shadow of
its former glory." But as the White Walkers advance,
these summer-minded southerners are about to be
faced with a stern wake-up call. At the end of
season seven, the White Walkers
breach the Wall, in a devastating blow
to the Night’s Watch, whose entire identity is
based on guarding that wall. “I am the watcher
on the walls. I am the shield
that guards realms of men.” In season 8,
the Watch’s role has to be
radically redefined, as they transition from
‘watchers’ to soldiers in a great war. Meanwhile, looking back
over the seasons, we can see how
this organization has deeply shaped
Jon Snow. “I’m a brother of
the Night’s Watch. I pledged them my life,
my honor, my sword.” His sense of duty
and purpose were formed in
the Night’s Watch, and this group
gives us insight into the choices
he will make as the story
comes to an end. “There is only
one war that matters. The Great War.” to sign up now. The Night’s Watch
philosophy is summed up by the vow
all the men must take when they join. “Now my watch begins,
it will not end until my death.” This oath pledges
service above all. It renounces
all earthly connections that tempt a man
to abandon or compromise his service. “I shall take no wife,
hold no lands, father no children.” This gets at how
joining the Night’s Watch is a form of death
to the rest of the world. “Every man who joins
the Night’s Watch renounces all
former titles. Among other things.” But it’s also,
for many men, a new life –
a second chance. Joining the watch
is a way for criminals or other outcasts
to wipe the slate clean. “Once a man has
taken the black, he's beyond reach
of the law. All his past crimes
are forgiven.” So while it does entail
giving up a lot, the brotherhood can
offer a rare shot at redemption or
atonement in an unforgiving world. “Class distinctions
are left behind, as are past misdeeds. A man gets what
he earns on the Wall; and even
the lowliest guttersnipe can rise up in rank
if he proves himself worthy.” The members we meet
vary greatly in what they make of
this second chance. Broadly speaking,
we see two categories within the Watch: there are the people
like Jon or his best friend,
Samwell Tarly, who are misfits
with unlocked potential. These misfits believe
in the mission of the Watch, and take this opportunity
to prove themselves in a way they couldn’t have
in the outside world. “He's the commander
we turned to when the night
was darkest.” And then there are
the bad apples, who don’t really have
any intention of improving themselves “Karl Tanner
from Gin Alley drinking wine from
the skull of Jeor f---ing Mormont.” To some degree
the two types loosely align with those who
choose the Watch versus those for whom
it’s a punishment. But even those who
ostensibly chose to be there often didn’t really
have another option. “Sam's no different
from the rest of us. There was no place
for him in the world, so he's come here.” Sam’s father threatened
him with death if he didn’t join. “If you do not,
he said, then we’ll
have a hunt. Somewhere in these woods
your horse will stumble and you’ll be thrown
from your saddle to die, or so I’ll tell your mother.” And Sam wouldn’t have
chosen this life because, despite his mental alacrity,
he’s physically weak, lacking the bodily
endurance required. “I’m a coward. My father
always says so.” Sam becomes stronger
thanks to his trials. He finds the bravery
to rescue Gilly and her baby, and like Jon,
he’s seized with an invigorating sense
of purpose. The Night’s Watch gives
this self-professed coward the chance to prove
that he is worthy. So even those
for whom the Watch is a last resort
have the potential to create a new life
through their service. “I am a man of
the Night’s Watch, Gilly. I made a promise
to defend the Wall and I have to keep it because
that's what men do.” Moreover, there are some
truly illustrious men in the Watch, reminding us of
the order’s prestigious history and the noble mission
at its core. “One hundred
generations have defended
this castle. We’ve never
fallen before. You will not
fall tonight.” Some even come
from great houses, like Jeor Mormont and
Aemon Targaryen, who is, before Daenerys returns,
the last Targaryen in Westeros. Jon’s uncle
Benjen Stark, the ranger who partly
inspires Jon to join, also embodies that honor
of belonging to the watch. “I’m the first ranger. My job is out there.” While the Lannisters are
dismissive of this group, “Wildlings and
White Walkers, I’m grateful to have
good, strong men like you
protecting us.” it’s significant
that Ned Stark admires the Watch “It is a great honor
serving in the Watch.” and considers it
a respectable destiny for Jon. And Jon has
a romantic view of what the Watch
represents. “We’ve guarded
the kingdoms for eight thousand years.” “Is it ‘we’, already?” Jon himself is the
quintessential example of someone who has
no real place in society, who uses the Night’s Watch
as an escape hatch, and rises in the ranks. “Mormont himself chose
Jon to be his steward. He saw something in Jon. And now we've
all seen it too.” After joining,
he takes his oath so seriously, he even turns down
Stannis Baratheon’s offer to make him
a legitimate Stark and Lord of Winterfell. “I swore a vow
to the Night's Watch. If I don't take
my own word seriously, what sort of
Lord of Winterfell would that be?” One reason
Jon is eager to join the
Night’s Watch is because he thinks
he won’t be treated like a bastard there,
the way he is in Winterfell. “Lady Stark thought
it might insult the royal family
to seat a bastard in their midst.” “Well, you're always
welcome on the Wall. No bastard was ever
refused a seat there.” But when he
gets to the Wall, we see that there’s
also a part of him that holds onto those
old ideas of class that defined his life
with the Starks – on some level
he thinks he’s better than
the rest of these people and deserves to be
rewarded for how much he’s given up, “But I'm better
than every...” “Better than
no one!” as we see
when he’s upset about being made
a Steward instead of a Ranger. “Do you take me
for a servant?” “We took you
for a man of the Night's Watch. But perhaps we
were wrong in that.” Jon needs to learn
that for better or worse, joining the Watch
means letting your old life
go completely. “l belong with
my brother.” “But we're your
brothers now.” Everyone has to start
from scratch here. “Here a man gets
what he earns, when he earns it.” The men of
the Night’s Watch have no bloodline
or class – they are only
their duty. At the same time
over the seasons we see how Jon is
not willing to be bound by the Watch's
narrower sense of duty alone. His advocacy for
the Wildlings shows that
he refuses to stop thinking
for himself. He can’t help
departing from the Watch’s rules
when he disagrees – and this foreshadows
that he has a bigger destiny. There is also
an extent to which the Watch's
way of life can be unnecessarily
restrictive and even breed
an unhealthy environment. A key tenet of the
Night’s Watch philosophy is that the men
are supposed to be cut off from love. “Love is the
death of duty.” But Sam
disproves this – his bravery is
driven by love. “What kind of man
would I be if I ran away
when I saw someone hurting you?” He shows us that
being a kind, warm-hearted person
is not antithetical to doing this job. "He risked his own life
to save mine more than once. He's a greater warrior
than either of you will ever be." He even discovers
the secret to killing whitewalkers –
dragonglass. “But no one’s
killed a white walker in thousands of years.” “Well, suppose someone
had to be the first.” Why shouldn’t
these men be allowed some
love and levity when they have
one of the hardest jobs in the realm? So there are
a few fatal flaws inherent to the
Night Watch’s set-up. The scarcity,
isolation, and aura of disgrace
can lead to resentment and infighting. The fact that
so many men don’t choose
to be there lends to it the
feeling of a prison – how can men
truly embrace their duty if they don’t embrace it
of their own free will? "They were given
a choice, no doubt, castration or
the Wall. Most choose
the knife.” Men like Janos Slynt
and Karl Tanner fail to let go of their
former lives and demonstrate the
darker side of the Watch. “I was a f---ing legend
in Gin Alley.” Janos is still fixated
on these things from his old life,
like social rank, “I have friends,
important friends in the capital.” and the fact that
Jon is supposedly a bastard. “You can stick
your order up your bastard ass.” He still hasn’t accepted
that your former life doesn’t matter here. So Janos fails
in the Watch because he never
even tried to start over. In Season 3,
Karl rebels against Jeor Mormont’s orders
and starts a fight which leads to Rast,
another bad apple who was sent
to the Wall for rape, stabbing Jeor to death. Then in season four,
we learn that Karl has taken up residence
at Craster’s Keep and is now just as terrible
as Craster ever was. “Poor girls. Never thought they'd miss
their daddy. Karl's running
things now.” Ultimately,
the Night’s Watch can bring out the best
or worst in a person, but it’s up to
each man to decide for himself
if he’s going to take advantage
of that opportunity to start over. “Here you
begin anew.” The Night’s Watch
is linked to the color black: “Next time
I see you you’ll be
all in black.” “It was always
my color.” Taking their oath
is said to be ‘taking the black’. Black represents
that these men live a life
without color – without joy,
freedom, or sex. “No wonder you're all
so miserable.” Fittingly, black also
makes us think of night. Thousands of years ago,
the terrible winter when the White Walkers
first appeared was called ‘The Long Night’. “Thousands of years ago,
there came a night that lasted a generation.” After years of conflict,
the First Men built the Wall to prevent another
White Walker invasion, and the Night’s Watch
was formed to guard it. In the present,
the men’s service pretty much feels like
a never-ending dark night. “Night gathers,
and now my watch begins. It shall not end
until my death.” Living on the Wall
is like living in an eternal winter,
with no hope of a brighter tomorrow,
or summer, to look forward to. “I'll never see
my family again. I'll never be inside
a woman again. So don't tell me
about ‘fair’.” So the Night’s Watch
is an experience of endurance –
enduring the cold, the isolation,
and the endless, unglamorous work. “When People talk
about the Night’s Watch, they never mention
the shoveling. All the shit.” Black also sets
the Night’s Watch up in opposition to
the White Walkers – and it makes us
think of seeing a conflict as
‘black and white’, good versus evil,
which is the mindset Jon adopts as
he tries to unite all the living
against the dead. “The White Walkers
don’t care if a man’s free folk or crow,
we’re all the same to them, meat for their army,
but together, we can beat them.” Here, though, the traditional
Western symbolic connotations of the colors
are inverted: white symbolizes death,
and black life. While we tend
to think of hope like a light in
the darkness, in this world
it takes the form of these men
dressed in black amidst a stark,
white landscape. The contrast of
their black clothing and the vast
snowy backdrop emphasizes their
vulnerability, and their impossible task,
as these all-too-mortal guys go up against
a terrifying force that threatens to
engulf all of mankind. “If we don’t
win this fight, then that
is the fate of every person
in the world.” In Season Two,
Ygritte repeatedly points out that the
fundamental difference between the Night’s Watch
and Wildlings like her is that the
men of the Watch aren’t free. “You think you’re
better than me, crow? I’m a free woman.” And in some ways
this is true – duty may well be
the opposite of freedom. But the men of
the Night’s Watch don’t give up that
freedom for nothing. They get the self-worth
that comes with providing valuable work –
they experience what it is to be
truly necessary. And this is
the major gift that the Watch
gives Jon Snow: purpose. “The war is
not over, and I promise
you friend, the true enemy
won’t wait out the storm. He brings
the storm.” Ygritte once tells Jon: “You didn’t stop
being a crow the day you walked
into Mance Rayder’s tent.” And even after
he’s stabbed by the mutineers
and resurrected, though he leaves
the Watch behind, “My watch
has ended.” Jon still doesn’t stop
being a Crow in a fundamental sense. “He’s a crow. He’ll always
be a crow.” His greater
sense of duty, his commitment
to protecting mankind from the greatest threat,
continues to trump everything. This can mean
he has to make some tough choices,
as we've seen before, and may see
again in Season 8. The Night’s Watch men
are called “crows,” likely due to their
black clothing. “The crows would
never catch us.” “I'm as much a crow
as they are.” Crows are not
the most charming, pretty or delicate
of birds. This absence
of glamour is a key aspect
of the Night’s Watch, because that’s
what duty is – it’s doing hard work
that’s never applauded. “I’ll tell you
about honor, pardoning crimes,
protecting the realm, but shoveling
really is most of it.” We usually consider
crows a nuisance, just as the men
of the Night’s Watch are looked down on
by most of society. But even if crows
aren’t exactly beautiful, our world needs them. They eat insects
that can harm plants, and they store
more seeds than they eat which helps
with forest renewal. And Westeros
very much needs the Night’s Watch. “Night gathers
and my watch begins. I am the shield
that guards the realms of men.” Crows are known as
highly intelligent animals – we see that intellect
in certain members like Sam and
their master, Aemon. And as a group
they’ve developed smart defensive techniques
for the wall, which help them
fend off far more attackers than their ranks
should be able to handle. Crows are associated
with death and darkness. A group of crows
is even called ‘a murder of crows’. And the Night’s Watch
has to confront death every day because
of their proximity to the White Walkers
and the Wildlings. In stories,
crows are often known as the bearers
of bad news. In one Greek myth,
when a white crow delivers bad news
to Apollo, he turns the bird
black in anger. The men of the
Night’s Watch likewise warn the realm
about the White Walkers
to no avail. Even their name,
‘Night’s Watch’, tells us that
these men are like the lone people
awake on a dark night while everyone
else sleeps. And this symbolizes how,
besides the Wildlings, the Watch is
the only group that sees this
threat to humanity from the beginning. The very first scene
of the series shows a group of men of
the Night’s Watch being attacked by
White Walkers. Afterwards,
the lone survivor tries to spread the word, “I saw the white walkers. People need to know.” but no one takes
him seriously. “Is it true he saw
the White Walkers?” “The White Walkers
have been gone for thousands of years.” And this poor man
is executed for trying to make
mankind understand what's coming. So there is
a downside to being the
only one awake. “One trip
to the Wall and you come back
believing in grumpkins and snarks.” Crows and ravens
are in the same family of birds,
and in the books, the three-eyed raven
of Bran’s storyline is actually a crow. This association
between the Crows and the Three-eyed Raven
highlights the supernatural air to watching
over the wall – it’s as if the Crows
are the bridge between the real and
the surreal. Bran’s and Jon’s links
with the raven and the crow underline a bond
between them, and might foreshadow
a shared purpose in the show's
final chapter. Even if not all men
of the Night’s Watch live up to their
once-great reputation, the ideal of duty
and service that they aspire towards
is all too rare ‘these days’ in the Seven Kingdoms “A man of the
Night's Watch lives his life
for the realm.” Most characters
on ‘Game of Thrones’ spend their lives
not even pretending to care about anyone
but themselves. “I don't care
about checking my worst impulses. I don't care about
making the world a better place.” And for a long time
they have the luxury of being oblivious
to the threats in the north and denying
the existence of the creatures
beyond the Wall, thanks to
the Night’s Watch. So while this
brotherhood is meant to
protect the realm, really it prepares people
like Jon and Sam far more than
anyone else, because they
understand the danger
they’re facing. That’s what will
make the Night’s Watch and its former members
essential in the epic battle to come. The best tools
that key players like Jon and Sam have
are the values that the Night’s Watch service, endurance,
and duty above all. 