Thanks to Brilliant for supporting this episode
of SciShow. Go to Brilliant.org/SciShow to check out their
course on Cryptocurrency. In the 1990s, doctors noticed something unusual happening in the islands of Guadeloupe, Guam and New Caledonia, as well as in Caribbean
communities in the UK. Patients were presenting with stiffness, difficulty
with movement, and dementia -- as well as tremors and hallucinations. These symptoms were similar to what we see
in Parkinson’s disease, a progressive condition that affects motor and mental abilities. But not quite the same. And doctors were able to tie the condition
to… a fruit. These patients were diagnosed with atypical parkinsonism, a cluster of conditions that are similar to classic Parkinson’s disease except that they don’t respond to the same drugs, and may progress more quickly. Because atypical parkinsonism is, well, atypical compared to classic Parkinson’s, doctors suspected that something in the patients’ environment was to blame. So they looked at their diets and discovered they all had a taste for a spiky green fruit called soursop. The scientific name for soursop is Annona
muricata, and it goes by a number of aliases: graviola, guanábana, corossol, and Brazilian
pawpaw. It’s said to have a mild pineapple-y, banana-y,
strawberry-y flavor. And lots of people love it. But unfortunately, many parts of the plant
and fruit contain a low dose of a neurotoxin. Scientists suspected a toxin in soursop might
be harming people’s dopamine-producing neurons. Dopamine is a neurotransmitter involved in
movement, and when those dopamine neurons die, it can lead to Parkinson’s. So in a 2002 study, researchers put extract
of soursop root bark into a culture of dopamine neurons. After 24 hours, half of the neurons were dead. The soursop toxin had actually induced programmed
cell death in those neurons. Researchers later identified the neurotoxin
responsible as annonacin, and it’s not just in the plant’s root bark. There are about 15 milligrams of annonacin
in each soursop fruit and about 36 milligrams in a can of soursop nectar. In a 2004 study, rats given injections of
annonacin developed brain lesions within a month. Though, those rats got intravenous infusions
of the purified chemical, which isn’t necessarily the same as eating fruit -- plus, rats don’t
always respond to toxins the way we do. Still, studies like these have established
that this chemical isn’t the safest thing for us. There’s a twist, however. Because annonacin isn’t the only thing hiding
out in this fruit. Scientists have identified other, totally
separate chemicals in soursop that may protect dopamine neurons and help treat Parkinson’s. The chemicals are called tryptamine-derived alkaloids. They’re similar in structure to melatonin,
a hormone involved in sleep regulation that can have protective effects on dopamine neurons. In a series of studies, a team based in France
synthesized compounds based on ones found in soursop, modified their chemistry, and
tested them for their ability to protect dopamine neurons from damage. Their most promising candidate was a molecule
they called PPQ. And it helped to counteract the loss of dopamine
cells in a mouse model of Parkinson’s. More trials will be needed, but the researchers say PPQ is a promising candidate for Parkinson’s treatment. So soursop – a widely loved but slightly
toxic food that can cause Parkinson’s symptoms – could also lead us toward a treatment
for Parkinson’s. Talk about a frenemy. 