 Online Media Showcase Before Showcase Begins
(G)I-DLE is Having a Photo Time After a long time, we're taking pictures
for the showcase articles. (Following Yuqi's pose) I already did it first. Because~ I'm Yeh Shuhua~ Why did you gesture it
as the highlight pose? Because it's my part. Shuhua's Part & Chorus Part
Similar but Different Moves (Next move)
What else do we have? This one~ Another Highlight Gesture of  Oh! I forgot that! I forgot to do that! What should I do? Put this pose in Shuhua's press picture. [Breaking News] 'Shuhua' Forgot Her Favorite Pose...
So Regrettable [Urgent] Netizens, That Image is Cute, Too [Breaking News] A Puppy Broke
into (G)I-DLE's Showcase Entering Naturally and Dance Dance What is the catchy gesture Yuqi thinks? Isn't it this one, guys? Why is that? (Simple)
Because you did it. I should've done this!!
Oh, no... Do it here. After Finishing the Filming,
Coming Up with Another Pose The Puppies are Full of Energy Today Again! Shall we do 
with the powerful version? Are you ready? The Moment You Need a Laughter
(Power)I-DLE (Flapping)    (Flapping) Powerful      Energetic Stop Stop...
Running out of Energy Before the Beginning... Sculpture Miyeon Appears! We're at the showcase
of (G)I-DLE. We've been waiting for this moment
for a long time. Because our season has been delayed a bit. Kitty and Maltese are Catching Eyes It's our honor... We (G)I-DLE are so much excited like that. Is it true that we make a comeback today? It doesn't feel real yet. How can I feel it? Only when we meet NEVERLAND,
I can feel our comeback, I think. Miyeon is Missing NEVERLAND... (Innocent)   (Chic) Yummy~
Miyeon is Eating Before the Showcase 'Shooting a CF alone' NEVERLAND, Open wide~ I had two-toned hair colors
when I filmed the album jacket. But the dyed colors faded so quickly. So, I had a darker color here
and purple for this part. But the root part was damaged so badly. So, I came back with the black hair
to avoid dying over and over again. Maybe I'll have different colors
for the first broadcasting show. Anyway, I'll show you the prettiest
image when I do the first broadcast. Miyeon Took the Prettiest Picture
at the 1st Broadcast! Hi, I'm Soojin of (G)I-DLE~ Clap   Clap   Clap   Clap (G)I-DLE has come back in about 9 months. It must've been hard for NEVERLAND
to wait for us until now. Anyway, we have come back like this. You have bright hair color, right? Yes, my hair got bleached 6 times. 4 times of root bleaching. And it got dyed 5 times. Is your scalp okay? Nope, the whole process drove me crazy. Soojin Suffered a Lot for the Pretty Hair Color (When has Shushu joined here...)
It was so itchy that I went mad. Guys~ Hi~ Do you know who I am? I'm the loveliest girl in this team. I'm lovely Yeh Shuhua, guys~ Whatever you say...
(Suddenly disappearing) Lovely and Hip Maltishu~ Bye, guys~ Hi!   Hi! Hi, NEVERLAND, I'm Soyeon. I'm at the showcase. Soon, you'll meet the songs I wrote hard for you. What're you doing now? Oh~ Waiting for us~? (Playing a double role)
Upgraded Video Message Can you guess what my ring is today? 1. Grapes 2. Dark clouds 3. A pine cone 4. A feather Can you guess the answer? To the person who guesses it correctly~ What... What... What's the Prize!!! I'll send my love~ Please look forward to it~ How can you send your love? Love is... (Thinking hard) I won't decide how I will give my love! Yes, yeah yeah... Soyeon, let me fix your makeup~ I have to go now~ Sad... See you later~! One, two~ Online Showcase Begins Like That! This song likens love to the process of trusting me in any kind of conflict. Soosoo is Showing the Point Gestures Great   Great   Great Finishing the First Stage
of  Successfully!  Special Choreography Clips Filming Oh my~ Today~ Do you know what it is? It's the devil concept, guys~ I'm so much like the devil. And I'm very nervous. (Huh...?)
You look so much like an angel, right? Wha...? Says you~! Don't you see it? Everything is black here, right? (The devil, I'm the devil anyway)
Shushu Has Fallen into Her Own World I have to do it like the devil. (Krrrrrr) Just Cute Shuhua... Model - Jeon Soyeon
Photographer Yuqi is Taking Her Pictures Again Yuqi>> One~Two~Three! (Thud) Soyeon is Descending from Heaven It's not that bad
but it looks like you're trying to fly. No~!! Taking pictures until successful'
She Wants the Feeling of Descending from Heaven Oh! Good! Checking with Great Expectation... The Model is a Willing Horse for the Picture Fully Satisfied I'm an angel. Do you want me to take yours? Don't bother~ A Happy Wingbeat
Angel Soyeon is Happy to Get the Picture She Wanted (Carefully) Carefully~ Not to hurt my wings~ Finally, I'm here! Hi, I'm at (G)I-DLE's Waiting Room~ Do you want to see them? Now, I'll reveal them! (A very natural interview)
We're here to shoot the special clips. What do you think about the devil concept? Ah, are we devils now? - Yes.
- I see. The Leader is Chiming in Naturally All of us have the devil in our hearts. Since it's the devil concept,
somehow I'm nervous... I'll try my best to act like the real devil. I think we're challenging something big. Yes, I'll do my best~ Emphasizing Again... 'The Devil Concept' Please look forward to it~ Everybody, look! (Sulky) This is Soojin, our big devil~ How do you feel about shooting the devil concept? I'm an angel. (Disconcerted) Soojin Doesn't Chime in Easily Are you an angel? I'm an ANGEL! The Interviewer is Very Disconcerted Do you love Shuhua? Last night, on my bed,
Shuhua was sleeping until dawn.
So I couldn't sleep well. She woke me up
and told me to go to my room. Shuhua, just go now... As Always, Shuhua Likes Soojin Sister 'I have no thoughts in my head...' In a fairy tale... Sleeping... You look like Sleeping Beauty. You know what I mean?
(Pinch) (Hehe) Guys~ Today, Soojin is playing an angel. McCutter's Editing Point (She's panicked most)
Guys~ Don't panic~ I've found the next interviewee. Smooth transition~
Who's the Next Interviewee? What's your point gesture
or facial expression this time? GGAMZZIK(Cute) face. Can you show it to us? Cute     Ggamzzik It fits her so well~ (Soulless) Finishing the Interview Immediately Next Interviewee
Meeting Yuqi How do you feel about shooting the devil concept? Devil? Aren't we angels? No, we're the devils. Then, I can't interview now
because I'm an angel (serious). Then, I better get going. Bye~ This angel is flying away~ Since I'm a real angel, everybody knows I'm an angel
though I don't do anything. I'll just show my true nature as an angel.
(Just blinking) (Composed)     'Speechless' Yeah;; That's right;; - Then...
- Yes? You can go now. Yeh Shuhua
Unsparing Interviewer Since I've fallen to this world recently~ I'm still flying~ << Minnie
Flying~ No way~ I'll have a conversation
while I'm flying~ Oh, my~ Since I have no power of the earth~ Absorbed in the Skit,
Baby Angel Becomes Disoriented Shuhua's Interview Begins Again Naturally Didn't it hurt when this feather was plucked? A bit hurt... I've just bled. Do you know the color of my blood? It's gold. Angel Minnie Has Golden Blood Bleeding gold blood hurts a lot. But, I'll use it as a prop when I shoot the clip. I think you're really amazing. Oh... Did it hurt? It hurt me too... Acting Bursts Then, you keep the wings at home at other times? Um... Yes~ Because people will look at me
if I wear them. But today, with pleasure, I can reveal them light-heartedly
and I'm so happy about that. Kim Minnie is Overly Absorbed in the Angel Concept I had it from the beginning. Oh, you didn't have it before~? Queen of Acting Minnie deserves the best acting award. Then, will Minnie receive the best acting award
of  this year? (Fully expected) Of course!
(I'll give it to her) As the predecessor, I'll give it to Minnie. Best Acting Award     Kim Minnie It's a great honor...
Best Acting Award, Kim Minnie It's like a dream to receive it from Ms. Susan. I'll do my best as Actress Minnie. Thank you~ From Some time Ago,
This Kind of Acting Has Become Natural... Tada~ Angel Miyeon Appears Do you know the reason I don't want to be shown on the camera? Because Miyeon has a puffy face today~ That's right~
I had chicken before sleeping last night. That's why my face has swollen a lot. I didn't know this kind of disaster would happen. Guys, even an angel can have a puffy face. (Sulky) Not Agreeing 1 Not Agreeing 2 (Acting pretty) Let's begin the shooting~ Yes! Miyeon's Suffering Eternally That's Okay...
Because You're Pretty 365 Days Before Shooting, (G)I-DLE is Rehearsing (PD Jeon)
What do we do for the last scene? Gathering up? The Angels Want to Add a Highlight
to the Last Dance Moves Dancing Around Hand in Hand
with Minnie as the Center Shooting Begins! I'm an angel. [Planting the ego of an angel] Angel! A Bit Sloppy, But Finishing with Twists and Turns It was my idea! Yuqi Wants to Show off to NEVERLAND I have so many good ideas~ I'm a genius. And an angel.
Soyeon is Behind Genius & Angel Yuqi No Idea What's Going On in the Back... (As if nothing happened) Every word beginning
with 'Cheon' fits me well. Cheonsa (angel), Cheonjae (genius)... What else? Cheon...
(Yuqi Found Soyeon) Goodbye, guys~ She's come back! Why does she like me so much? Jeon Soyeon is the Master of Teasing Song Yuqi Any other words begin with 'cheon'? Except for Cheonsa and Cheonjae? - Except for Cheonsa?
- Cheon won! (1,000 won) (Teasing)
Cheon won fits you well. (This sister is...) Cheonman (10 million) Yes, cheonman! Since I'm loved by 10 million people,
that fits me very well, too. How about Cheonmin (untouchable)? You must not tease others.
Yuqi is Being Teased Forever Just keep teasing me forever, okay?
(Yu-Yeon love each other so much) 