It’s really nice when a classmate stops
by your house when you’re sick to bring you notes from your class you missed — but
not like, remember-it-for-the-rest-of-your-life nice. But that time you introduced yourself to the
new kid and they cracked a joke about your hometown? It’s been years, and that memory still makes
your blood boil. That’s probably because our brains kind
of like holding onto grudges — even though it’s better for our health to let things
go. Before we really get into this, let’s note
that we’re not saying anger is bad or wrong — sometimes, it’s downright righteous. And you may be totally justified in holding
a grudge. But you should know that it costs you something,
too. Experts say that when you hold a grudge, you
keep experiencing the same negative emotions you felt during the offending event. And feeling and re-feeling those emotions
isn’t good for your health. Ruminating on past offenses has been shown
to raise a person’s heart rate, blood pressure, and cortisol levels — which, physiologically,
is similar to chronic stress. And if those things stay high for too long,
they can damage your immune system and essential organs like your heart. And studies have found that people who bear
grudges are more likely to have physical ailments like heart attacks and stomach ulcers. This is probably because your brain processes
mental imagery a lot like it processes the real deal. Think of someone who’s afraid of spiders,
for instance. If they’re asked to imagine a spider, their
heart will race and their muscles will tense, just like they would if a spider was actually
in front of them. Well, it’s the same with your grudge. If you keep re-living the memory of someone
embarrassing you, you keep feeling the embarrassment and anger. And if that’s not bad enough, grudges can
also bleed over into other relationships. Research has found that ruminating on anger
increases the odds you’ll lash out at others, even if they had nothing to do with what made
you upset. So, if grudges are so bad for us, why do we
hold onto them? Well, we can probably thank evolution for
that. We’re not the only species that does this. Studies have noted that all sorts of species,
from ravens and crows to octopuses, can remember a person who wronged them and exact revenge
afterwards. Though, exactly how long they can hold these
grudges isn’t clear. One biologist noted that even guppies seem
to take revenge on other guppies that don’t pull their weight. If one individual falls too far behind when
the group is inspecting a predator, the fish in front will fall back to leave the slowpoke
exposed. And some experts think that’s because revenge
and forgiveness are both important for cooperation — and therefore, essential to social species. Specifically, revenge helps ensure people
don’t let others walk all over them. People could just be hostile in general to
prevent being used, but then they’d never form the relationships they need to survive. And sometimes, it’s impossible or unsafe
to retaliate to an offense in the moment. If that person has the capacity to hold a
grudge, though, they could mentally “practice” their revenge until it’s the right time
to exact it. That’s certainly one way to keep the scales
balanced. And evolution doesn’t really care if a behavior
is dark or cruel. If people who held grudges produced more offspring
than people who didn’t, the neurological tendency to hold grudges would spread through
the population. And that could explain why it’s so common
— even though grudge-holding isn’t so helpful now. It also might explain why, to your brain,
plotting revenge is a goal like any other. The same structures activate whether you’re
planning to get even or planning brunch. That includes parts like the left prefrontal
cortex, the dorsal striatum, and the caudate nucleus, which all play big roles in the neural
circuits for motivation and reward. So yeah, in a weird way, it feels good to
get even. But, as satisfying as it might be to hold
a grudge long enough to act on it, it’s still bad for your health overall. Your hurt and angry feelings aren’t just
echoes of something that happened long ago — they’re hurting you right now. And when you forgive, you spend less time
in stress mode, and that protects your mental and physical health. Of course, it’s not always easy to release
those feelings. Forgiveness takes work — like, it might
take giving up some pretty powerful negative emotions or reconciling with a person that
you might not feel deserves it. But, there are ways to unburden yourself,
if that’s what you want. Take the Stanford University Forgiveness Project,
for example. For a study published in 2006, they performed
a randomized trial of a six-week forgiveness intervention where they taught participants
a lot of the science we just covered in this video. They also ran through visualization and meditation
exercises designed to help them check in with their own emotions and learn alternatives
to angry rumination, along with reframing the transgression to build more empathy toward
their offender. And it worked! The intervention reduced the participants’
negative thoughts and feelings two to three times more effectively than a control group. So if you are holding onto a grudge — even
one that is very well deserved — you may want to consider letting it go. After all, forgiveness doesn’t mean forgetting
or approving of the offending act, or letting the bad actor back into your life. It means letting go of your anger and not
letting someone else be responsible for your well-being. Forgiveness is a brave, difficult thing to
give, but it’s better for you in the long run. Thanks for watching this episode of SciShow
Psych! We hope you learned something. 