If you're like me, one of your greatest fears in your entire life is: I cannot explain it I don't exactly know why I just I hate the idea that someone out there is disappointed by me. "Your family," Kid: "And your friends" "Are very disappointed in you" I think maybe it all started with the series finale of that show "Lost", I remember watching and thinking wow I-- I don't ever want to make someone feel the way that I feel right now. Josh: "Oh come on, Jordan!" Just come on it's just a joke. so that is why it is incredibly hard for me to try new things I mean I have a very high likelihood of disappointing the people in my life even without introducing a new variable. Ahm why would I do that to myself? alright Jordan? "Alright Jordan, You have a 50/50 chance here of winning the game. Do you choose door one or door two? *crowd yelling one* I Choose... to add 200 more doors before I make my decision. "What are you crazy!" Feeling like I'm going to disappoint people is, so crippling that a lot of times I just Don't do anything. I just give up. I mean am I the only one that is this way? Certainly somebody else out there knows what I'm talking about? Am I just going crazy? Is this just me? I don't know I can't tell. *laughs nervously* Josh: "I know what you're talking about, Jordan, I get it." Wow Thanks, brother It means a lot to me. Josh: "yeah" This constant fear and dread You tell me that's healthy okay? And that is why I try-- TRY--at least to keep four things in mind when I start to worry about failing or disappointing the people in my life the first thing is this: Okay, you're not supposed to be great at something the first time you try it, nice as that would be. "Hey, I'm thinking about learning to code." "Oh wow, that's awesome. "Yeah I'm really great at everything and understand complex topics the very first time that I ever try them so it'll be very easy" "Sounds very rewarding for you." The second thing that I try to keep in mind is that even You should never feel like a failure or a disappointment just because you didn't get it right the first time, like that line: "I'm not even gonna do it again" and anyone who makes you feel like a failure well Life is too short to waste time with that kind of person. It's like when you tell people that you're trying to lose weight some people are encouraging: "Hey good for you, man, what are you doing to try to lose some weight?" and other people try to discourage you by giving you this weird backhanded compliment: "Oh you don't need to lose weight." usually those people have something in common. Just saying--I'm just saying--my point is, you want to spend your time around people who encourage you and lift you up? "What is he saying? This is not relatable." "You should go support your brother." "After what he said about Lost? I don't think so. Fine!" So after I failed at something the first time the next thing that I try to keep in mind is that now that I have failed I know better for the next time. I'm smarter now. See the only way you're actually going to get better at something is by failing at it the first hundred times you try it. So instead of beating yourself up every single time you fail "Oh, well, I guess I've proven that it really is true when I assume other people think about me. I am a disappointment!" Just accept it as part of the process. "One failure out of the way [laughs] Ninety nine more to go, probably...if I'm lucky. [cries]" And the final thing I try to keep in mind so that I don't get lost in a sea of disappointment is this, three little words, Even if I fail, even if I am a disappointment, so what? It's not like the world is gonna end because I messed something up. Life goes on and everything is gonna be just fine, okay? "The end of the world is upon us!" "How did this happen?" "It was that idiot Jordan. He tried to do something that he has no skill at!" "Well I hope it was worth it, Jordan." *angry* "Your family" "and your friends," Josh: "Sorry I started to say your line." *laughs* All start shaking our heads to the right first Josh: "yeah" "very disappointed in you" Josh: "I can't do that and look disappointed at the same time... Let's do it" "and your friends" "are very disappointed in you" Jordan: "wait we started to the left and we're supposed to start to the right" Sorry Kelly: "I just feel so ridiculous...sorry" "He tried to do something that he has no skill at" "Well I hope it was...dang it...I forgot. 