Itaewon is a major tourist attraction for foreigners. The area is also dense with adult entertainment establishment, which is why incidents are unending. It’s a lie, really! Itaewon's police station is located right in the middle. Hand me the handcuffs. The area is always full of violence and loud noices. Do you want to die? Itaewon's police station is constantly busy with events and accidents. Let us meet the people who guard this place. Two Cops! Protecting Itaewon. The struggle has begun. It is Friday night, when all of Itaewon comes to life. Itaewon Police Station. The police officers are also getting ready. Patrol car 32, leave now. It is finally the beginning. While the number of calls in other areas would decrease after midnight,
 midnight calls the start for Itaewon's police. There was a fight between foreigners in the adult entertainment district. First, they calm down both sides and try to understand what has happened. They took my watch and my chain. Is there a problem? I was out dancing and somebody took my stuff. , I don't quite understand why they fought. I need to ask the other side. Itaewon police station's ace, corporal Kiwoon Kim They look for the other people involved in the fight. Wait, I think it is here. Is the club's back door over there? A trainee that has just become a police, constable Yujeong Kang. They discover the opponent foreigners of the fight. He's bleeding. Bleeding? 
Who were you fighting with? I'm fine. I want to go home. In order to grasp the details of the accident, they try to find a witness. I recorded the fight from the start. The witness shows them the scene of violence. The scene recorded by the witness. Several people are tangled up in an aggressive fight. Anyways, you're saying you want to go home? Yes, I want to go home. Thank you. The foreigner's fight that shook the whole of Itaewon is 
settled through reconciliation and agreement on both sides. I think they fight was caused because they kept bumping into each other while dancing in the club. They both reconciled and agreed to let it go. Are such events frequent here?
/Yes, foreigners seem to fight sometimes when they colide into each other at the club. Itaewon is famous for its many dangerous events. Itaewon must be a difficult area for a trainee. I was worried when I was first assigned to Itaewon. What were you worried about? There is a perception that female police officers are not prefered.
, I was worried that this would be the case with our team members. Why are female police officers not prefered? It is probably because areas like this require the strength to supress others. These are self-defense batons to combat weaponed criminals. The new ones are so long. My older one is useless. It is too short. It gets longer and longer. The lengths are all different. They are getting longer. My one is so short in comparison. It really is.
/ Too short. It is inconvenient if a baton is short? It cannot help but be dangerous when facing someone with a knife if the baton is short.
It is harder to reach them. Similar to a boxing match, it is disadvantageous to have short arms. The reach becomes shorter. The senior folds the baton in one try. Constable Kang watches him do so.
/I will be right back. She suddenly goes outside. I look so dumb. Is it not working?
/Yes. There is it. She barely suceeds after several attempts. Maybe it is broken. I was bad at this even at the central police academy. Now it is all scratched. What do you think when you see your seniors do it so well.
/ That I should practice more. But it would be best if there was no need for the baton. I wish I will not have to use it. Friday night Itaewon is busy, and the police station has already received 50 calls. That is two to three times the regular week day. Get up. Get up. You are such a nuisance. I am so mad.
You are such an embarassment. Is he sick or unwell?
/ No, he is fine, really. The drunk man is unconscious. Get up. Please get up. He grabs at his chest in pain.
The situation does not look good. He passed out after drinking. Excessive drinking can harm one's health and safety. Too much drinking has caused this young man to require an ambulance. he is his guardian, his girlfriend. You can go with him now. Take care. After midnight is when the real struggle with drunken people begins. There is a women passed out on the stairs. Are you okay? Miss, try to get up.
/What is your name? Miss, could you tell us your name? We will need a blanket. Please send backup. I will help you. The woman cannot even walk. Since she is wearing revealing clothes,
they decide to cover her up with a blanket and move her. She is barely conscious making it difficult to move her. Eventually, Corporal Kim decides to carry her. Is she covered in the back?
/Yes. The police officers always struggle on Friday nights due to the drunk people. She cant breath if her face is covered. As she slowly becomes conscious, she keeps trying to cover her face. Don’t cover your head. It is fortunate that she was discovered by the police. The majority of the drunken people and people involved in fights are men. I am glad when women come so that I can help. It is decided that she should be sent to the hospital. Nowadays, women who are alone and drunk easily become the target of crimes. As there are many female-targeted crimes these days, extra caution is required, especially after drinking. Safety Maneul 1: Women's Safe Return Service
If you are afraid of going home at a late time, you should use the Women's Safe Return Service. If you call 112 and tell them your location, they will escort you safely to your home. The war against the drunk lasts until morning time A drunk is lying down on a subway vent Apprentices who were going round the patrol found him and take measure Where do you live? It is not here, It is a random street here Where is your wallet and ID Card? Your wallet, Well your phone is in here
 You are missing your wallet, Sir, Where is your wallet? Where is your wallet?, You don't have your wallet? It's morning time, Morning, 6am Where is your house in **dong?
I have to go see my kids Sir, where do you think you're going being drunk like this? 
You have to go home Working at Itaewon Police Station for 3 months, 
the trainees are already used to taking care of the drunk Tell your destination to the taxi driver He is drunk
 You should call his wife and then go A friday that is a joy for civilians but a hardship for police has ended Itaewon Police Station A calm weekday afternoon Hello Corporal Kim Ki Woon is going somewhere with Constable Kang Yoo Jung , a trainee They are walking all over Itaewon and attaching CCTV installation notices Why are you attaching the CCTV installation notices? We are expecting some crime prevention effect in 
money exchange stations or financial institutions If it is attached, it can be effective to keep
people alert even if they're having a bad intent Let's go, Yes Sir They are wandering around places where a lot of 
cash is being exchanged and attaching notices that are written in english (At Itaewon) There are a lot of foreigners, Since they can't read korean
we are trying to help them understand by writing the notice in english Preventing crime is as important as arresting the criminal Constable Kang Yoo Jung is working too It's good We are doing good stuff Thank you, Take care The effort to make Itaewon a more comfortable and safe place never stops Are you in the middle of ** street?, 
We are on our way to ** apartment, Yes, That's right
I can see it. We will be right there, Yes A fight between pedestrians was reported Seems that the end of my parasol (that I was holding) grazed his eye
He has been trying to stop her but she was going wild So we were like "What is happening?"
"My husband has been stabbed" So I thought she was meaning that he was
'stabbed by the parasol by accident' and said sorry He kept on saying that he was fine and tried to stop her She said "You stabbed my husband with the parasol while walking" The victim's big shock did not go away that easily I am trying to keep my hands calm but it is not working She got a wound under her eye I would understand if there was a miscommunication or a
fight while we were talking but it was not the case It's done. It's done, lady No! My husband is hurt now I am terribly sorry If you want to sue her for assault,
Yes, I want to sue her Right, I will deal with the case then, Yes Follow my finger, how do you feel? She was running from that far and pricked my eyes with her finger A slight bump between people in the street ended up in the police station The world is being harsh and assault crime 
driven by impulsive anger is increasing nowadays As a result, now the two people are facing each other as a perpetrator and a victim I have something to ask you
Right before, why did you prick the bottom of the victim's eye with your finger? Why did you do such a thing?
My strength went up hard without even realizing it. I did not do it on purpose So your strength went up hard 
without even realizing? Is that right? Yes. I swear I did not do it on purpose The husband comes in and appologizes to the victim I am sorry. I beg your mercy.
We'll pay for your treatment. Please forgive us How can I be living in a safe Korea 
when a pedestrian is acting like that Ma'am, please forgive us once. However, her mind did not change easily I am willing to take responsibility of whatever 
I did wrong but he can't live without me Sit down A common conflict that can occur at any point 
of our lives has changed into an assault crime Yongsan-gu, Seoul The Itaewon polices are visiting a near senior citizen center Hello Greeting the elders and explaining some crime prevention 
solution needed by local residents is the purpose of the visit When leaving your house and if this window open alarm is attached to your window, 
you will be informed tby the sound that a stranger has opened your window Ma'am, I attached the alarm on the window just like this If the window is closed there is no sound at all but
if the is opened you can hear the alarm. Do you understand? And the alarm goes off when the windows are closed So when you are in your house you just turn it off and 
when you go out somewhere you should turn it on The seniors listened attentively
Be healthy, Goodbye Itaewon Police Station A weird sound is being suddenly heard What is that sound?
We are trying to figure out People are saying that it is too loud.
Not only here but people from other places are saying it is loud too It seems to be the Resident Center. Isn't it? It is all over the place, they are saying the
sound is from the 8th Army base  We are figuring it out I can't handle this everyday anxiety! Given that there are a lot of people wandering around,
I don't think it is an aerial attack I just thought of it as something being wrong or 
a fire alarm being activated He said he would figure it out so
I guess the only thing I can do is wait The weird sound that covered Itaewon area The police station is in a state of paralysis with 
the pouring of radio and phone calls Hello this is Itaewon Police Station
Are you calling because of the weird sound? Continuous reports are made by the residents
/Chief Situation Team, I will try to get in the base of the 8th Army The weird sound was being made at the U.S. 
military base. Everyone was being nervous because of the sound The sound was louder after arriving in front of the military base I understand that the alarm system in the 8th U.S.
 Army Military Police Command is malfunctioning I do not know the exact name,  
but we're trying to power down the alarm They cannot enter the base, therefore are waiting Is this a training? is it? The alarm system is broken. Is it broken?
Ok. Thank you. Bye. Just then, the sound goes off We are on the closing phase of the case, 
Seems that the sound has ceased The weird sound that made Itaewon nervous turned 
out to be a malfunction of a machine and the night of Itaewon became peaceful Someone reported that a woman was tearing paper in
pieces on the opposite side of the police station There were already plenty of paper pieces on the floor
/What are you doing? I am venting my anger because of 3400 dollars.
 What's wrong with a performance offence? Tell me Are you keep on going to film me? 
I will crash the camera I am not afraid of going to jail only for one time. ** Show me your ID Card 
/I do not have my ID She was venting her anger because she had to pay a fine Constable Kang Yoo Jung arrived at the scene
They were all surprised by the woman's attitude It's Korea here. Korea, a beautiful and wonderful world A wonderful Korea? 
/Yes. It's wonderful It is urgent to clean up, as there are a lot of foreigners coming and going. I'll take care of my stuff and then clean it up.
 No. Clean the place first. Put your shoes on What if someone steals my stuff?
I'll take care of it. Clean the place up first Constable Kang Yoo Jung unlike her usual image which is being nice, 
she is strict at this kind of moment Instead of making her pay a fine for unauthorized dumping of garbage, 
they had her cleaning up the place But she still can't control her own anger, 
so she points and screams at the police station Constable Kang Yoo Jung deals with a confusing situation in a determined manner Going through a lot of situations repeatably helps progressing
This is the reason and goal of field training It's still a quiet evening when the police are not busy It's been a while since these two people seem to have spare time A special visitor arrives at this time
It is a child who is rarely seen in Itaewon police station. Do you know your adress? Where did you bring him from?
Over there in front of Itaewon ** Hotel Not even crying, the kid answers the questions Do you know your adress?
 Do you know where you live? I know
Where? I lived in the U.S and moved here To Korea? 
Yes, I moved to Korea Here is our Itaewon
Do you live near here?/Yes, this is my house I was taking a rest and losed her hand and ran
Your mom and dad were gone?/ Yes Just wait for a bit My house is further. That is why I am going home
Wait a little bit We notify a missing child in the neighborhood The police station that was full of screaming and drunk people is now full of the child's laughter Thank you
The mother of the child came to the police station Did you do your fingerprint dictionary registration?
No. I didn't You should have done your fingerpring dictionary 
registration in advance How did you lose your child? He was suddenly running and then was gone.
I was shocked He was not even crying The child likes to play prank. 
But his mom is at last calming herself down with relief Is this a police hat?
Yes it is The immature child thinks the police station as a playground Come here
/ Press it firmly with your finger We are now going to print yout fingerprint. Give me your right hand Your thumb
It's good now They registered the child's fingerprints and photos in case this happens again Greet them politely. Very politely. Goodbye
/Goodbye./Thank you The station was full of laughter thanks to the cute visitor
/Thank you. Come here. Hold mummy's hand It is friday night again All of a sudden, the trainees are heading to the convenience store.
/Here it is Constable Kang Yoo Jung chooses some coffee Is she on a senior officer's errand? Today is my last field training day in Itaewon police station, so
instead of a late-night snack, we just wanted to leave something, so came here to buy some tea As it is a present for senior officers, she was prudent in choosing She puts down the presents that were fully covering her hands Chief, since it is our last working day, we justed wanted to give you a gift Thank you. I will enjoy it. I appreciate it At the last working day, it is the sincerity of the
 trainees that are grateful to their senior officers I am very sad to leave this place. I think I want to cry It is the very last time to make coffee for the senior officers Chief, I made the coffee for you
/Thank you. I feel grateful to you today The chief is proud of the trainees finishing their training at the 
Itaewon police station, which is famous for its hard work Working hard at Itaewon police station on T.G.I.F and T.G.I.S(Saturday) sometimes being kicked by drunken women and going through obstruction of justice she was always working with sincerity and active posture and 
I feel absolutely grateful to her and I am sure she will do well in the future Another Friday night has begun. The police station is busy as always. Why did you hit us? 
What are you doing? This person is totally drunk. Give me you phone. Did he come here himself? No, we brought him.
He just hit us and ran away. My brother-in-law is a judge. You’re dead. Get me a phone. I’m going to call my brother in law. Give me the phone or else. If you want to get promoted give me your phone. My cousin is a foreigner. This man suddenly came up to us 
and hit my cousin’s head, saying that it was too big. He ran away. So we caught him and brought him here. I am an American citizen. Do you have an ID card?
/ Yes, I am American. This isn’t it. Yes, this is not it. Why is this from Illinois?
 Because I am an American citizen. Don’t you have a Korean ID card?
/I am from America. Do you want to just receive an apology and go,
 or do you want him to be punished. I’ll let him go since he’s drunk. 
I want to punish her. We will keep a hold of him while you leave,
so that you won’t have to bump into him. Let him go. He’s hurting me. He didn’t let my hand go either. Let him go Wait, wait a minute. He is so drunk.
/You can go home now. The victim decides that she does not want to punish the man and leaves. are going to regret this. I’m glad you came here today. Violence cannot be punished if the victim does not wish to. You can go now.
/Go home. It seemed as though the event had come to an end after he leaved. However, the man come back to the station. We are busy. You should leave.
/ M father is the Commissioner General. We don’t care if he is the Commissioner General or not. Just leave. The man keeps disturbing the police that are already busy on a Friday night. Are you not going to protect local residents? Even though they take him out, the man comes in again. Hey, relax. What is wrong with you man?
/ I’m a professor at ** University. We will have to punish you if you don’t leave. The struggle with this man that started late in the night, continues until the sun rises. Because the people who come here are almost always drunk, we need more officers to help. Also, most drunk people don’t understand that we are merely executing the due law. So, they tend to insult police officers and unfortunately,
this behavior often leads to obstruction of justice. That is why we are particularly busy on Fridays and Saturday. The calls continue till dawn. Once again, it is a drunk person. Take my hand and try to get up. A drunken woman is on the floor blocking a store’s door. Where do you live? Why do you keep doing that? Because you might fall and it’s dangerous She keeps rejecting their help. Because you might fall and it’s dangerous They continue to follow in worry. She eventually trips over.
/ See? We told you we would help. Stop. We will see you to your door.
/Okay, we’ll stop. Don’t run. She falls down once again. Are you okay? 
/Yes. Let us help you to your house.
 I’m fine. You keep falling down. It hurts. See? We will help you.
We will just see you to your door. No, I can go on my own. 
/You keep tripping over. We will support you. We need to help. Finally they arrive at her house. Wait a minute.
Let go of me. Take your bag.
 What are you doing? Excuse me, we are police officers. 
Can you confirm that this is your daughter? Mom. She is very drunk.
Mom, I’m your daughter, right? They finally succeeded in sending her home. Are there many drunken people on the weekends? 
/Yes, of course. This is very common. What do you think when you see such people?
 /I guess alcohol is the problem, not the people. Although it was a tough night, it was still fulfilling. Friday night is finally over. Constable Kang is preparing breakfast. The lady who cooks for us doesn’t come in the mornings, so we have to cook ourselves. Breakfast is ready, Chief. , Let’s go eat. Yes, sir. Let’s head up. Eating breakfast together after working through the night has continued for three months. The sunny-side-up egg is very well done. This will be the last breakfast that trainee will eat at this station. The field training at Itaewon Police Station is finally over. Seniors congratulate the trainees. I think I’m going to cry. The trainees will now return to their school to graduate and each be appointed to different areas. Have you got all your stuff?
/ Not yet. I can’t believe I am leaving this place. I feel weird packing my things. Through the experiences at this place, the trainees will
become police officers who protect the safety of Korea. I will buy you a tasty meal next time you visit Itaewon.
/ Thank you. Okay. She eventually starts to cry. She cries too much. Thank you for everything. We will be going now. Now, a new start is ahead of these trainees. At first, I just wanted a job that would be fulfilling and meaningful. Then I found out that my birthday is on the Police Day. Becoming a police officer is my destiny. Naturally, there are opportunities to help others when you are a police officer. Now I am in an environment where I help people everyday. That makes me feel like I am needed and am doing a good job in life. From now on, the Itaewon Two Cops will each be working as police officers in different places. We wish both of them good luck. Good luck! Protect the intoxicated streets of Yeongdeungpo.
/This team is busy with incidents. Criminal activities are in hiding in this street. The struggle of new policewomen. We call her Ms. Ahn. I have no idea why. We are taking you to the police office. We will find the person who hit you.
/Hey, Miss. I’m not Miss, stop calling me that. At first, I didn’t know how to do anything, but now I love my job. We present Constable Kang with this certificate in honor of
the contribution she has made at Itaewon Police Station. 