by going to audible.com/HAI.
If you’re a normal person this is a super-interesting episode about a secret airline that brings
secret people to secret places within the US. If you’re a US government official or
anyone else that could be peeved by me spreading semi-secret facts, this episode is about bricks.
A brick is a building material used to construct walls, floors, or other building elements
in a fast and cost-effective way. Interestingly, bricks come in different sizes depending on
where you are. In the United States they’re 7⅝ × 3⅝ × 2¼ inches while in Australia
they’re 9 × 4⅓ × 3 inches, and that is why bricks are so interesting. This video
was made possible by… ok that’s normally enough to get them to leave.
Now, if you’re still watching, buckle your bootstraps because we’re going for a ride,
just not on these planes because they’re part of JANET which is based here at the Gold
Coast Terminal in Las Vegas, weirdly about 3,000 feet from where the Hacienda hotel from
episode 3 was. JANET probably stands for “Joint Air Network for Employee Transportation”
but we’re not really sure because its secret. Some people also call it “Just Another Non-Existent
Terminal.” But here’s what we do know. Every morning
this parking lot fills up with hundreds of cars, the planes take off, and then in the
evening the planes come back and the cars leave. We know they have six Boeing 737’s
and five prop planes. We also know who owns the planes. You can go right onto the FAA
website, pop in the registration number of one of the planes, and it’ll tell you its
owned by the US Air Force. But the US Air Force doesn’t operate these flights, and
we’re not 100% sure who does, at least nowadays. There used to be a defense contractor called
EG&G which played a central role in the development of nuclear weapons They were the original
operators of the gold coast terminal and JANET Airlines and how do we know that? Because
they posted a job listing. EG&G was acquired by the Carlyle Group in 1999 which was acquired
by the URS corporation in 2002 which was acquired by AECOM in 2014, so as far as we know, AECOM
currently operates the flights, but the real question is where do they go.
Most of the time, the planes take off from Las Vegas airport and head north until they
turn off their transponder and disappear from trackers after about 15 minutes in the air.
But what’s telling is where they drop off, because right here is Area 51—the place
that, according to the US government doesn’t exist. Every sign would point to these JANET
flights being the Area 51 employee shuttles for personnel living in Las Vegas. The airspace
around Area 51, known as Restricted Area 4808 North, is some of the most protected airspace
in the world. Any unauthorized plane that enters will be quickly met by fighter jets
and likely shot down, but these planes regularly go in and out with no problem.
While we can only speculate that the planes go to Area 51 based off where they drop of
tracking, we know for certain that they also go to the Tonopah Test Range. This site is
where the US military develops and tests many of its weapons and, while its still highly
classified, the JANET planes that go here don’t turn off their transponder meaning
that we know for certain that planes land here.
JANET planes have also been seen regularly going to China Lake, a Navy research and development
site, Plant 42, the site where the US Air Force builds its planes, and Edwards Air Force
Base, another site home to classified research and development projects. What’s really
impressive about JANET is how little we know about it despite it flying hundreds or even
thousands of people per day. You can see these airplanes in full sight when you land at Las
Vegas Airport and yet we still can’t say with 100% certainty who or where these planes
fly. 