Four years ago today, we announced Sid Meier's Civilization VI. Over that time we've released two expansions with systems that include governors, and volcanoes, and climate change. We're very happy with where the game is in terms of complexity. Lots of systems, lots of civilizations, lots of paths to victory. As Sid says, many interesting decisions. But we keep wondering: what else can we do with Civilization VI? Civilization VI is not just on PC anymore. Civilization VI and its expansions has come to consoles and other platforms. We have a very passionate and vocal fanbase. We love reading what you guys are putting on social media and the fansites. We want to bring you more content, more Civilization, but in a way that keeps the game fun. That's why we're excited to announce something brand new: a whole year of Civilization VI updates. We want to deliver more Civilization VI to you on a monthly basis for a whole year. The entire Civilization team is really excited about this approach. We get a chance to keep Civilization fresh so you have even more reasons to come back over the next year. We'll have regular updates with free content and quality-of-life updates for everybody who owns Civilization. There will also be premium content for you as well. There will be new leaders and civilizations-- --like the Maya, who are a returning civ, and Gran Columbia, who has never been in Civilization before. We're also focusing on creating new systems that add to the game in ways that change it up and give it some new flavors. Some of these flavors are going to be based on history… …but we're also excited to change it up and take some creative liberties with history. We think of these systems as delicious toppings for your Civilization ice cream cone. Some of these modes will extend existing gameplay, like our Apocalypse mode. Other modes will add a whole bunch of new things to consider… …new units to build, new buildings to construct, and new tile improvements to place out on the map. And these will totally change the way that you play game, as well as the things that you can do to your opponents. The Civilization VI New Frontier Pass will give you access to all of the premium content coming up this year. This year-long schedule for Civilization VI gives us a chance to see how you're playing the game… …and make adjustments from there. We'll be asking for your feedback. What did you like? We want you to feel like an awesome leader that's ruling an empire that stands the test of time. As developers, this gives us the chance to learn new ways to plan and build a game as rich and exciting as Civilization VI. We get to have a conversation with you, our Civilization community, across a whole year. We hope that you enjoy all the things that we're planning to bring you guys… …and we think you'll be pleasantly surprised by a couple of them. From all of us on the Civilization team, thank you. Thank you. Thank you for following us this far through the journey that has been Civilization VI. And we're looking forward to continuing that journey together with you through the next year. 