Oh my... Where should I put this
to film this? With this camera.. I can't see myself as I film Here's the mirror Hi He said this isn't a convex lens.. But this feels like a convex lens a bit? Don't you think so? Isn't this a convex lens? Ah.. I'm done with all the concerts Now I'm home.. no, I'm back in the room Ah... I'm tired.. At last It turned off, what happened? Is it working? (I'm super clumsy,
so I'm scared I'll break it...) He gave me a weird camera I took a shower I feel super tired, guys The time here right now is 3 o'clock.. so it's 5 o'clock in Korea Ah.. it's all over now When I wake up, it will be the day
I'll be going back to Korea I'm sure they gave me the camera
to me to talk about my feelings after the concert, right? Of all the tours I've done, I encountered most trouble this time around To compare how I felt on the first day to how I feel now after all the concerts, it feels like I went through many changes As I did the concerts.. I'd never worried as much as I'd done for this tour Also.. to the audience, I've never felt this thankful I've never relied on them this much After I did each concert, I... to myself gave a lot of compliments,
which I'd never done as much before I still have... so many things that are new to me Wow... Wow... That must be why my life is fun It feels I.. compared to other concerts in the beginning, wasn't in the best condition possible So to the audience
for the first set of concerts.. Gwangju especially I still feed sorry to the audience
who came to my Gwangju concert Also, the staff who worked on the concert with me They never complained at all to me Compared to other days, I was a bit... down but regardless of that fact none of the staff members mentioned it to me They pretended not to notice it I'm so thankful that that's how they treated me After that, we went to Incheon and Busan and I felt much better The energy I gained from those places lasted through the concert in Seoul which was the biggest concert I'd ever done So fortunately, it went so well it made me feel proud I will never forget that Seoul concert Each of the cities abroad had such unique characteristics I thought to myself was I... this popular abroad..? I got to... realize it again First off... It will get too long if I talk
about each concert... (The foot that moves
when she feels excited) My concert in Taipei was the largest in Taipei But still what they did for me was such high quality it made me think, do I really deserve this...? After that, I went to Singapore,
which I love so much Just being in Singapore makes me happy So I was in a good mood
when I did the concert there Meeting SINGAENA for the first time
in a while was so fun as well So nice and exciting And then I went to Manila Seriously I thought I was a native there I almost felt I was born in Manila I received such incredible
and amazing support there Just thinking about Manila
still gives vibrations in my ear I came out to do the opening,
and I couldn't hear my voice I was wearing in-ears,
but the cheer was so loud... It was an unbelievable experience It's like a home of excitement Just thinking about Manila
makes me feel excited After that, I went to Kuala Lumpur Kuala Lumpur.. Kuala Lumpur We talked about this
at our company dinner as well It was so pleasant,
we all had such pleasant time The concert system and environment
themselves were all so amazing The audience had such good manners too Just everything felt so pleasant and nice from the hotel to everything The pronunciation of 'KUAENA' is so cute too Everything felt so cute After that, in Bangkok, we did our concert on Christmas Eve I've felt this before too, but BANGAENA are very shy But it may be because people in other cities were super cheerful and lively, but seeing BANGAENA being shy in a while made me feel they are so adorable and lovely But in the midst of all that, they cheered
hard for me and did the events Things like that made me feel they are so lovely And then, we're here at Jakarta It may because it's the place for the last concert I'd never been here before it felt so familiar I felt it would make no sense not to come back here I'd have to come back later I saw all the videos from before when I got here They are such good singers They were so in tune The special event was so cute and groundbreaking Jakarta.. it was the place for my last concert I think I'll get to do a lot in this place Ah!? It's 5:30 KST right now I got to talk briefly about how I feel after I'm done with the last concert I'll get some sleep and if I feel okay tomorrow, I'll make a brief video about my final day in Jakarta (The video couldn't be made) Good night (In two full months last winter) (Love, poem Concert happened without a break) (The thought of meeting numerous UAENAs) (encouraged and energized me) (It helped me to end it all with a smile on my face) (I'll look forward to the day we'll meet again) (at the end of this pitch black tunnel) (IU will)
(do her best today and tomorrow) (Thank you everyone who showed
so much love and care to IU) ((Looking for a Missing Child Campaign)
(Kim Yongtae(10 years and 1 month old at the time, male))) 