[Channel Teaser] My Players Killed One of the Most Powerful People In The Kingdom “By Accident” I the DM make a homebrew super large campaign
set in a land called Vaepratia (Vay-a-prar-tia) made up of 33 states. The players were still early in the campaign
and within the first state, Estren (E-stren). The group was a Tiefling Wizard (Arkus), a
Tabaxi Cleric ('Rain Under Sharp Plains', nicknamed 'Rain'), and a Mousefolk Druid (Hemway). They were backed up by two Tabaxi Rogues,
(Whicker and Stump). For some needed background, I followed proper
naming conventions for the Tabaxi, that they are named after a metaphorical or literal
description of their home, or station upon their birth. Whicker's full name was Whicker Basket by
the Door. You can guess his backstory. He was the romantic companion of Stump, a
strong, hulking Tabaxi who was named Stump by his old Mistress. The powerful Scarlet Lady. One of the three most powerful people in the
land, with the ear of the Queen; the Scarlet Lady ran most of the legitimate and criminal
organisations in the entire kingdom, wielding huge political and social power. She would, in fact, be the primary villain
of Chapter 2 of the epic story. The players were currently on Chapter 1. Stump had been raised in her care as a slave
where he did everything for her, but he was also abused by her in the worst ways you can
think of. She called him Stump as an insult, to say
that he was too stupid for anything else. He'd escaped years ago, an escape that had
led to one of his other friends, a fellow slave, to die. A death he blamed both her and himself for. Whicker had been the only one that had brought
joy back into his life. The group were in a forest that no one enters;
those who enter, do not get out. It was known as the Cairnswood. They discovered that the reason no one escaped
was because it was protected by a hidden village full of centaurs, who killed anyone that trespassed
in the forest. However, due to a medallion they had from
a previous centaur they'd aided in the previous town, they were proven to be friends and were
allowed to pass through their small town in the middle of the forest, the town of Burkton. While in the village, they found children
had been going missing, and through some clever sleuthing, found a serial-killer centaur among
the herd in the form of the tavern owner. He'd been stealing children, defiling them,
and murdering them. He claimed to be doing this to protect the
herd, so they would never overpopulate, and wouldn't grow beyond the boundaries of the
forest that kept them safe from those that would do them harm. The other centaurs were horrified at this. He was subsequently executed by the townspeople. Unable to handle what had happened, both Stump
and Whicker offered to stay within the town, take up the running of the now ownerless tavern,
and put down better roots for the future of their life. After a tearful goodbye, my players wished
them the best and moved on. The players were avoiding the main road, known
as the Purple Road. It was a royal route that threaded its way
through all the states of Vaepratia and led to the capital. Paladins, the continent’s main source of
power and guards, used this route as their patrol and travel route often, and thus, they
had smartly chosen to avoid the road. Sadly, they couldn't. They needed to cross the road this time on
their route. After leaving the forest, they crossed a field
and hid behind a small rise in the ground as they spied the road, making sure the coast
was clear. But it wasn't. The dice favoured a perception check, and
they spotted an approaching convoy. The convoy was made up of six paladins on
horseback and a seventh on foot at the rear; all escorting a carriage with a crimson insignia
on it. One that none of them recognised as they were
still new to the area. They recognised the paladin at the back without
a horse, Brol. He had helped them in the beginning and had
originally been assigned to escort them over the purple road after they'd been arrested
for xenophobic reasons when they first arrived in the land. Their escape, they'd known, would get him
in trouble, but they valued their own safety more and thus had put him in jeopardy. He was in manacles when they saw him then,
at the rear of the escort. The Mousefolk was the only one from the country,
and thus was not wanted by the guard. He padded over and made small talk with the
paladins, with the aim of finding out if Brol was going to be alright. They didn't like the guy due to him being
a paladin, but they didn't want him to come to harm. Through conversation, they found that he was
on his way to being punished when they reached their destination with this highly important
individual in the carriage. The intention by me (the DM) was for them
to let the carriage pass by, to discover Brol later on, and for this to raise questions. They were, after all, only 3 level 2 characters. And these 6 paladins were all level 5's. They didn't stand a chance. But my players were not to be hindered in
their quest for justice. Arkus, the Tiefling, formulated a plan. First, the tabaxi cleric, Rain, RAN back to
the forest and through it, following the safe paths all the way back into the Centaur town
of Burkton. There, he called in the favour they'd garnered
from helping their village with the serial-killer. The entire town agreed to come to their aid. He led them into the Cairnswood, through the
safe mushroom paths to the area they had chosen. Second, and after waiting 1 minute for the
Tabaxi to be well on his way, the druid Mousefolk, Hemway, changed into a horse, ran up to the
paladins, turned and KICKED the side of the carriage HARD! Some rolls happened to determine some outcomes…
and it worked. The PALADINS GAVE CHASE! Leaving their carriage and chasing the horse
hard! The Mousefolk druid, in horse-form, rolls
a crit and manages to outrun the guards, and he RUSHES INTO THE FOREST! A roll keeps the guards on their tail (this
was not simply allowed. They got lucky. between a check for the guards intelligence,
to the mousefolks attempt to get them to follow him, to whether or not he was fast enough
to outrun them, to whether or not they were smart enough NOT to follow him into the supposedly
dangerous forest… somehow they rolled 18's, 19's, and several crit 20's on the die). Thirdly, the Tiefling stands up and approaches. Brol runs forward, shocked and confused at
the ensuing events. With a little magic and heat, the locks on
the manacles were broken, and Brol was freed. "You shouldn't have done this," Brol warned,
looking bewildered. "Who’s in the carriage?" Arkus asked curiously as he approached it. Brol replied, "Someone important." Arkus nodded and used magic to freeze the
door closed. Fourthly, the paladins rushed through into
the trees after the runaway horse… and into the arrows of THIRTY centaurs. They were blessed by the cleric and their
arrows flew true. They hit, and critted, and tore, and punctured
armour easily. One by one, they fell. By a sheer stroke of luck from the dice, the
final one left alive on low hp was the leader himself, injured, on one knee, staring up
at the centaurs and the small unassuming tabaxi cleric approaching him. "You'll never get away with this, you filthy
Tabaxi!" The paladin yelled violently. "I just did." Rain replied with a righteous grin. The cleric struck him down with divine wrath. The paladins they were not even supposed to
face, had been defeated without a single loss of life. The group went back and looked upon the frozen
carriage. "Brol," said Rain, nodding to the Paladin
who nodded respectfully back. Rain wasn't a fan of paladins, a scar across
his face that marred his complexion was a gift from one in his past, and thus, he had
trust issues. But he looked to Brol now with more respect,
more kindness. The Tabaxi approached the Paladin, and reached
up, touching his fingers along his own scarred face. He looked at Brol and gave him a wary glance
over. "Paladins have never been a friend to me." The look on Brol's face showed he understood
what was being said. "You helped us when we first got here; and
we repaid that by running. For that I'm sorry, especially as us doing
that seems to have caused you harm." Brol reached up and ran his hand over his
braided head. "You were only trying to survive. I can understand that." He gave the small cleric a warm smile, and
offered his hand. Rain Under Sharp Plains took it, and shook
that hand readily. "You should go, and please… don't come back. I imagine if they were upset at you before,
now they'll be pissed." The Tabaxi gave the Paladin a wry grin. Brol looked a little nervously from them to
the carriage with the frozen door, and the muffled yelling from its interior. "What are you going to do?" At those curious words, the group went to
the carriage, unfroze the door, and opened it. There, staring them in the face, was the Scarlet
Lady. Third most powerful person in the entire realm,
huge political and social influencer, vastly important to the politics of the entire nation…
and now at their mercy. They considered what to do with her, knowing
that if they let her go, there was nowhere her influence could not get them. The cleric turned his eyes back to the Paladin. "You should go…" He said again with warning in his voice. Brol gulped, nodded, turned and ran. The group looked back to the old woman. "What would they do?" they'd been asked… They had little choice. But it would seem that her fate, they decided,
was not theirs to decide. It did not belong to them. So they locked her in the carriage and took
it with them as they, once again, ventured back into the forest to the centaur town of
Burkton. They rolled the carriage up to the tavern. They called out Whicker and his companion,
and when they were ready. They opened the carriage. "I'LL HAVE YOUR HEADS!" She screamed, but she was only a woman. An old woman, staring at them with rage-filled
eyes as she was surrounded by a tiefling, a tabaxi, a mousefolk, and an entire town
of centaurs glaring down at her. She turned towards the tavern, and her eyes
locked onto those of one she knew: Stump. He saw her, and the expression on his face
was not one that could easily be described. "YOU!" She screamed, glaring at him. "Me." He replied, his voice was as still as water,
with no emotion, no coldness, simply… there. As though he felt he were dreaming. Whicker turned to his love, a paw on the larger
Tabaxi's chest, and said softly, "you don't have to do this. We can go back inside, and go, right now." Stump could only stare. In her eyes, he saw his life. The death, the whippings, the beatings…
the rapes. And the last thing he saw were different eyes
other than hers, those of his friend who had run beside him, eyes he'd seen lose their
life as a hail of arrows had skewered his form. This was for him. Stump approached the old woman. "What are you doing?!" She demanded in a confused voice, as though
she couldn't believe this had even happened, as though the very thought of it wasn't comprehensible. She backed off, fell over, scrambled away
from him. He walked calmly, approaching her step by
step, until he lowered his hands to her, wrapped them around her neck... and broke it. The team left after that, Whicker and Stump
still staying behind; and they left with heavier hearts than they'd arrived. I look back at that moment a lot. My players had broken my second chapter. The political ramifications of her death and
disappearance would yield huge consequences. The entire second chapter would be altered
by the political upheaval. And the direction of the campaign had been
forever changed by their decision… their decision to not let a friend meet his fate. But it wasn't just one friend. Brol was not the only one they'd saved that
day, for they'd given closure and peace to a Tabaxi, and freed him from his past. Stump would live well and happily. It was the best thing my players could have
ever done, and I'd never even considered it an option. A debt repaid and bitter sweet vengeance. A game turned on its head by quick thinking
and miraculous dice. Have your players ever surprised you with
a plan this ingenious? Comment your reactions and suggestions in
the comment section below. Don’t forget to subscribe to our channel,
All Things DnD. Our next video will be posted in 3 days, so
stay tuned for more amazing Dungeons & Dragons content! 