JI U & DAMI unit practicing for their concert unit stage Practicing the part where DAMI falls back Falling on her back without any hesitation I almost fainted DAMI is the one to fall but JI U is the one who's more scared I can't push you (Timing was a bit fast) (I can't do it!) There were no arms to catch me DAMI is scared too! She pushed me when there were no arms to catch me (Struggling) So scared Kinda like 'My House' aprt 2? A sequel There's now a masquerade ball in my house Plz do a cover of 'Full Moon' all together... Full Mon (JI U & SU A Ver.) A much rougher version of Full Moon Please turn the camera They were preparing Wanna dance with me? Insomnias, hands up if you want to go to the ball with Dreamcatcher! Thoroughly checking the concert details Why did SIYEON start laughing? SIYEON's biggest fangirls ~SIYEON performing her best~ Couldn't hold back her laugh LOL Focusing once again FAIL Can we drink water during this time? Nope! Gotta prepare for the next song! First concert practice done! Concert Run Through Should we take 10? They want to proceed without any breaks How they practice their ment I'm about to die PIRI? Guys, 'PIRI' is my crisis point this concert I'm exhausted The most difficult period of the concert I almost reach my limit But I'll do great, right? Please give me energy! Wow that's refreshing I'm not a bit exhausted! I could hear Insomnias cheering from afar Oh, hi there Insomnias! She's making us look like garbage Next up, solo and unit stages Take a moment to appreciate SU A's (a.k.a Insomnia) reaction (passionate) (Found the camera) Bye SIYEON~ This time, SU A fangirling GAHYEON GAHYEON said hi!!! (In awe) JI U & DAMI's stage is just full of surprises Her honest reaction This is my favorite part SIYEON's pick! You're so cool unnie....! Loss of words at her amazing performance (SU A -> BORA in progress) Showcasing their 'SAHARA' stage! Members keeping their tension until the end Concert run through has ended! Today, we've finished the first official rehearsal for the concert Now that we've done our run through I can't wait to see how exciting the actual concert's gonna be! FORREAL And it really hits us that the concert is only a few days away I want to show our performance to our Insomnias It's gonna be a blast Please look forward to our concert on Saturday Let's now go to the concert! Day of the online concert GAHYEON backstage Hello guys I have just arrived Insomnias prepared us meals For a 22 months old baby fox, This bento will be enough Fox~ I'm a fox! I'm a FOX Baby fox excited to eat her meal Thank you so much Insomnias I'm enjoying this meal so much Time for rehearsal after having a nice meal! Dongee's surprise message will be revealed later! I'll take pics first and undress you Huh...? Guys... You didn't think anything weird right? I meant that I was gonna take her jacket off What did you guys think?! So shy DAMI became taller than me Cause she's gonna dance barefoot Finally! I've tried so hard to get taller My nails match my outfit today I'm soooo happy that they're pretty today So pretty.... GAHYEON wants to eat a chicken burger made by SU A But you're not gonna eat it Then you take a bit amd I'll take a bite Why! That's so nice.. Really? Is it too bothersome? No I said that's so nice That's so nice!! OKEY What is that?! The smell of bread makes her clap (?) Banana milk!! Yogurt!! Awesome!! Sorry I gained some weight... YOU SERIOUS?! Stop talking unnie! No one can tell Really? Wait, I don't want to see.. But SU A does What do you think now? No you didn't gain any weight.. Should I show mine? Want to see over there? SU A wants to see You're the same Should we eat SU A's chicken burger? Choose the flattest No, the most tender ones Pick out the tender pieces Actually, it doesn't need to be flat You can just gently crush it Look at this perfect size You silly little chicken Niceeee Put in some french fries GAHYEON, take the first bite! Huh? The french fries are gone Okay, refilling it SUCCESS Guys, you gotta try it out It's so savory and tasty So tender It's making me tear up Successful SU A Chicken Burger! (Use morning rolls for this recipe) (VERY NICE) (Morning roll + Chicken!) I'm gonna eat this in one bite JI U eating the chicken in one bite! (Applause) I haven't wore Scream outfits in a long time And performing on an official stage Plus socks... Huh? Performing on stage makes me feel So pumped and Even during the rehearsal, my heart is pounding like crazy For me, just everything Meeting the dancers again And performing our songs to Insomnias Makes me feel like I've found my job again These days lately I was too bored I will gather up to my last soul Gather up to your last soul! Don't take this the wrong way everyone Are you all pervs?! Gather up to my last soul and Show it to you guys That's what I wanted to say but I guess she's a perv Me?! Fighting!! 3 mins before the concert! FIGHTING!!! Getting hyped up! We gotta hype up like this 10 secs before the concert!!! (omg) Starting off the concert with 'Scream' Now playing
Dreamcatcher - Jazz Bar It's so much fun I can't SIYEON preparing her solo stage! I'll be back It's my first time to perform 'Paradise' officially Now playing
SIYEON - Paradise Unit stage is up next! Fighting everyone! Give us energy Insomnias Let me hear it Now playing
YOOHYEON, GAHYEON - Be Natural (RED VELVET) Gotta hurry up! Next unit is JI U, DAMI! Now playing
JI U, DAMI - Full Moon (SUNMI) Now playing
SU A - Button + React (Pussycat Dolls) Insomnias who screamed for us I hope you guys have a blast Time for next stage! HANDONG's surprise video message for Insomnias Members only know the video up to this part! Her surprise message Members holding back their tears to concentrate on their next stage Now playing
Dreamcatcher - Full Moon Now playing
Dreamcatcher - I Miss You Dreamcatcher online steaming concert
THE END! Good work everyone! Concert DONE! It was so much fun! Good work! Thank you! Good work guys How can I ever forget this feeling? Good work Insomnias! Am I the last one? We have successfully completed our online streaming concert! I had such a great time and I'll never forget today Our company staff, hair and makeup team, and the concert team They did awesome work today for us It was an honor to join the show today Another big thank you to MMT staff And our members! Although it's dawn right now I had no doubt that our tension would be amazing I knew that we would be able to truly enjoy the show I'm very glad that the concert ended well today Although Insomnias couldn't join us in person and couldn't see face to face we're happy that we were able to meet online! Next time, let's meet in person for our next concert, okey?! Let's now head off to enjoy some good meat We're going home now The air outside right now is so sweet They're still hyped up from the concert We're losing our minds slowly but it sucks that it's all over now We lose our minds more at night and become more funny No our fans would've thought that we were crazy during the concer too I was 40% hyped up Imagine having our fans here with us Good work Dreamcatcher! 