Sea level seems like a pretty easy concept,
right? You just measure the average level of the oceans and that's that. But what about
parts of the earth where there aren't oceans? For example, when we say that Mt. Everest
is 8850m above sea level, how do we know what sea level would be beneath Mt. Everest, since
there's no sea for hundreds of kilometers? If the earth were flat then things would be
easy - we'd just draw a straight line through the average height of the oceans and be done
with it. But the earth isn't flat. If the earth were spherical, it would be easy,
too, because we could just measure the average distance from the center of the earth to the
surface of the ocean. But the earth isn't spherical - it's spinning, so bits closer
to the equator are "thrown out" by centrifugal effects, and the poles get squashed in a bit.
In fact, the earth is so non-spherical that it's 42km farther across at the equator than
from pole to pole. That means if you thought earth were a sphere and defined sea level
by standing on the sea ice at the north pole, then the surface of the ocean at the equator
would be 21km above sea level. This bulging is also why the Chimborazo volcano
in Ecuador, and not Mount Everest, is the peak that's actually farthest from the center
of the earth. So how do we know what sea level is? Well,
water is held on Earth by gravity, so we could model the earth as a flattened & stretched
spinning sphere and then calculate what height the oceans would settle to when pulled by
gravity onto the surface of that ellipsoid. Except the interior of the earth doesn't have
the same density everywhere, which means gravity is slightly stronger or weaker at different
points around the globe, and the oceans tend "puddle" more nearer to the dense spots. These
aren't small changes, either - the level of the sea can vary by up to 100m from a uniform
ellipsoid depending on the density of the Earth beneath it. And on top of that, literally,
there are those pesky things called continents moving around on the Earth's surface. These
dense lumps of rock bump out from the ellipsoid and their mass gravitationally attracts oceans,
while valleys in the ocean floor have less mass and the oceans flow away, shallower. And this is the real conundrum, because the
very presence of a mountain (& continent on which it sits) changes the level of the sea:
the gravitational attraction of land pulls more water nearby, raising the sea around
it. So, to determine the height of a mountain above sea level, should we use the height
the sea would be if the mountain weren't there at all? Or the height the sea would be if
the mountain weren't there but its gravity were? The people who worry about such things, called
geodetic scientists or geodesists, decided that we should indeed define sea level using
the strength of gravity, so they went about creating an incredibly detailed model of the
earth's gravitational field, called, creatively, the Earth Gravitational Model. It's incorporated
into modern GPS receivers so they won't tell you you're 100m below sea level when you're
in fact sitting on the beach in Sri Lanka which has weak gravity, and has allowed geodesists
themselves to correctly predict the average level of the ocean to within a meter everywhere
on Earth. Which is why we also use it to define what sea level would be underneath mountains...
if they weren't there... but their gravity were. 