Hi, this is Emily. In 1972, Carl Sagan and a colleague discovered
something that’s come to be known as the faint young sun paradox: according to stellar
physics, our sun has been growing brighter over time, thanks to increasing hydrogen fusion
in the star’s core. This means that the sun that shined on early
Earth was roughly 25% dimmer than today’s sun, which should have kept our baby planet
cool enough for ice at the poles to grow and reflect more sunlight and cool the planet
further - producing a literal snowball effect and turning Earth into a big ice cube. BUT: according to rock and fossil evidence,
ancient Earth was actually a melty, warm, watery haven for life, where simple single-celled
organisms developed and thrived. Hence the paradox – how could the sun be
dim but the earth warm? Scientists have proposed a range of possible
explanations, but the most likely one is that Earth’s early atmosphere included one or
more ultra-insulating gases that kept its surface unseasonably toasty. We still don’t know for sure what those
gases were or where they came from, but scientists have been toying with an intriguing possibility:
that whatever created Earth’s mega-greenhouse effect also supplied key ingredients for life. One hypothesis is that a constant barrage
of rocky debris left over from the creation of the solar system melted sizable chunks
of earth, releasing greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide and methane, and drawing sulfur
– an essential component of some amino acids – up to the surface. Another out-of-this-world hypothesis points
to the sun itself. Magnetic storms on the sun’s surface unleash
streams of high-energy particles into space. Today, these so-called solar winds can disrupt
Earth’s magnetic shield enough to penetrate the atmosphere and interact with gases, giving
rise to the Auroras. But back when our sun was a baby, it threw
much wilder tantrums, hurling frequent streams of high-energy particles that interacted with
Earth’s primordial atmosphere to create large amounts of two gases: nitrous oxide,
a greenhouse gas 300 times as powerful as carbon dioxide, and hydrogen cyanide, a poison
that can, ironically, also help produce some basic building blocks of life. Whatever the real story, it’s safe to say
that our early Earth somehow managed to create a perfect home for life under the faint young
sun. It’s also safe to say that, as our sun continues
to burn ever brighter into the future, Earth will snowball in another, hotter, direction,
and eventually water and life will boil away under the bright old sun. 