- My gosh, you're right there. What a good coyote. Ah, this is amazing. Wiley, here you go buddy. (upbeat music) Since launching the
Brave Wilderness Channel, there have been a slew
of comments suggesting that we make a video
of me, Coyote Peterson, meeting a real life
coyote, as in the animal. Sounds like a no brainer. It would be seemingly easy to produce, but truth be told, getting up close with a coyote is much more difficult than one might think. Approaching coyotes in the
wild is virtually impossible as these skittish canids will often flee at the first smell,
sound or sight of humans. So it wasn't until we teamed up with the Colorado Wolf and Wildlife Center that this fateful meeting finally appeared as if it were going to happen. Renowned for their conservation efforts, specifically centered around wolves, this location is also home to an adorable pair of red foxes. I had some pretty good
luck frolicking around with Rhett and Scarlet. We had some cheese, we
played on the fox slide, Rhett stood on my head
and even stole my glove, which wasn't exactly easy to get back. Now I only have one glove
and the odds of being able to get that glove back are not real good. Oh-oh, oh-oh, you see what's happening? Rhett, my, oh boy. Rhett has taken my glove up
and through the fox skyway. What we learned was that
the foxes trusted me and the cameras in their enclosure, but I know gaining the trust of a coyote will be much more difficult. So to help in making friendly introduction I'll be working along side Wolf Center's founder and CEO, Darlene. For the past 20 years she
has dedicated her life to rescuing wolves and their cousins, all while educating the public about the importance of
having these predators present in their natural environment. Good morning, Darlene. - Hey, good morning. - How are you? - I'm doing great. - I'm excited. - I am too. - This is going to be the first time that we actually have
the opportunity for me to get face-to-face with a coyote. Now just so you understand,
it's been five years since we launched the
Brave Wilderness Channel and the audience is always saying, "Coyote, when are you going "to get face-to-face with a coyote?" We have not had that
opportunity until now, here at the Colorado
Wolf and Wildlife Center. Now as I understand it, the coyotes are very
skittish though, correct? - They are, yes they are. But we'll give it our best shot. - Okay, now in getting
the coyote to come close, what's gonna be my best approach? What's gonna be the tactic? - So we're actually gonna go in there and you want to sort of be natural and just sort of maybe
talk to him a little bit. His name is Wiley. - Okay, Wiley, that sounds about right. - Yeah. And they like for you to
be more on their level. So standing up is sort of a
little bit intimidating to them. And then I've got some
power treats as I call them, to see if we can say,
"Hey, this is an offering. "We just want to say hi to you." - All right, you lead the way.
- Okay. - We're coming, let's go.
- All right, let's go. - For over a century,
coyotes have suffered an unbelievably bad rap,
portrayed as viscous killers that pose a threat to mankind. Yet this conviction couldn't
be further from the truth. My goal is to demonstrate
how timid these animals are. Even one that has been
practically handraised by humans. According to Darlene, I am
one of the only outsiders that has ever tried to
interact with this coyote. And physical contact by
anyone other than Darlene has never been achieved. So it's completely
possible that this animal will want nothing to do with me. So Darlene what we were thinking was maybe set up in this back snow area here. - Back over here, okay. - Back over here and I'm gonna try to figure a good spot
to place the cameras. And we will see if the coyote
will come down and hang out. What I'm gonna do is set up this camera. - [Darlene] He's in here? Oh, he's in here. He's in his little thing there. Wiley? - There he is, that's his castle. It's like game of thrones in there. Hey, buddy. I'm gonna take off my sunglasses. Hi, there he is, there he is. Hi, hi Wiley. - [Darlene] There he is, good boy. - So that's his little coyote castle and what I'm gonna do is set
up the cameras over here. It's gonna take some time. I'm gonna have to be very patient. With any luck he'll warm up to us and come out and we'll have this moment. Mario and the crew is
setting up their cameras on an overlooking observation porch. Their presence in the enclosure will definitely be too
intimidating for the coyote. Keeping the technology
footprint small is important, so I have a pair of GoPros that shouldn't see too threatening. I'll se those up next to me with the hope that they will catch any up close moments with the coyote. If I'm simply able to get this animal to investigate my presence, I will consider the encounter
an incredible success. - Today, is Coyote's big day. He's going to meet a real coyote. Myself and Matt were up here, get this vantage point. Coyote the animals are very skittish. They're intelligent animals and they've survived for so long because of the fact
that they're so skittish and they can actually hide
from predators and from humans. They actually are very good at living on the peripheral of urban environments or actually even in urban environments. But they're seldom seen. They're just super secretive and elusive. - So right now, Darlene is trying to coax Wiley out of his little castle. You guys have to remember, the coyotes, they're very smart animals, so anytime there's something different in a coyote's environment, it's going to be very, very skittish. So it's gonna take some time,
it's gonna take some patience, but with any luck, I'm
going to go face-to-face with one of my adorable cousins. (light upbeat music) - [Darlene] There he is, good boy. Very nice, good boy. - Hi Wiley. - [Darlene] Good boy. - Buddy.
- It's okay. - Okay, Wiley is officially out
of his castle at this point. Just a few feet from me. Hi, good morning. He's getting comfortable.
- There he is, good boy. - Here he comes, right here. There he is.
- We're her to say hi to you. Good boy. - Well, I'm gonna actually
put a bag of treats into my pocket and see if Wiley will get a little more
comfortable with us. See this? Little tiny meat treats. Those are just little pieces
of bologna right there. A perfect treat for a coyote. He's coming right up to me. There you go, bud, look at that. There you go. My gosh, you're right there. That's so cool. - [Darlene] That's really good. - What a good coyote. Hi, bud! I'm just gonna lay down like this. Wiley, look treats! - [Darlene] Oh! - See that? He took it right out of my hand. - [Darlene] That's really good. - [Coyote] That's really good? - [Darlene] He doesn't do that for people that he has never met before. - Okay, I'm felling
pretty good about this. - [Darlene] You need, that's
your relative right there. - Okay. (Darlene laughing) Wiley? This is amazing. Only a few minutes and already coyote has eaten out of my hand. Wiley? Oh good boy, good boy. Look at this, look, there we go. - [Darlene] Very good. - Okay, what a good boy. Ah, this is amazing, amazing. I thought it was going
to take so much longer for him to get comfortable. He must know that I'm one
of his friendly cousins. Look at the hesitation. That timid pause in the seconds
that seem to last forever as this creature slowly
lends me its trust. Does this behavior scream
blood thirsty killer to you? I didn't think so. Next to wolves there isn't
a predator on our planet that has been more aggressively
driven toward annihilation than the coyote. It hurts my heart that
humans choose to destroy, before they care to understand. And whether you believe it or not, our planet needs coyotes and the predator versus play balance they bring to the ecosystem. This is amazing, my first
contact with a coyote. I'm so thrilled right now. - So we came to Colorado in the winter because we wanted to experience the wolves and coyotes in their best coat. So in the winter they have
their thick fluffy coats and in order to prepare for this, Coyote actually started
to grow out his beard. Actually I did as well. As of right now Coyote's got his big beard and he's got his big, actual coat on. It has kinda some fake fur
that kinda looks like a coyote so I think he's sort of trying to not only think like a coyote, but he's trying to
actually look like one too. - That is awesome! That is me, face-to-face, about as close as you're gonna get with the coyote. Such a beautiful, beautiful creature. That was awesome. Okay, well, Wiley has moved up
and into the other enclosure. I don't think it could have
gone any better than that. How did I do? - My gosh, that was
amazing, simply amazing. You did fantastic. - Within the first five minutes
getting Wiley to come up and actually take a piece
of cheese out of my hands was beyond my expectations. We spent about 20 minutes
filming the scene. We thought it may take hours, but I think Wiley realized, hey, I'm a coyote, you're a
coyote, we should be buddies. You've got little meat and cheese treats, let's hang out! - That's it! I didn't even think it would happen, so you must have some coyote blood in you. Well, my namesake has come true. I'm officially one with the coyotes. Darlene I cannot thank you enough for getting me up close
with one of these animals. The audience has been waiting to see this for quite some time. And I think at this point,
ready to move on to wolves. - Let's move on to wolves. - I'm Coyote Peterson,
be brave, stay wild. We'll see you on the next adventure. Coyotes continue to be cast as villains and the overly hyped horror
stories that surround them drive a fear into society that in turn creates an
unwarranted hatred for the species. Human interactions do occasionally occur, however these canids are not
something we should fear, but instead should have a
well educated awareness of. Coyotes do not consider humans to be prey, but it is fair to say
that domestic animals, like cats and smaller dogs, do occasionally make enticing targets. If you have an outdoor pet, be cognizant of coyotes in your area. Don't leave them outside and unattended, especially during the hours when these predators are most active. Coyotes have found and always
will find a way to survive. As humans, our mission
should be finding a way to survive along side these
predators, not without them. What's better than getting into
an enclosure with a coyote? Getting into an enclosure with two foxes. For cuteness overload, go back and see if I'm able to outfox a fox. Hey, that was my glove you just stole! Hurry up coyote pack before we
chase after that finicky fox. Make sure to subscribe and
ring the dinner, I mean, notification bell, so you can join me and the brave crew on
our next wild adventure. (coyote howling) 