"I have no choice?" "This is what you agreed to, Jonathan." The John Wick movies are
ruled by consequence. “Rules.” “Exactly, rules. Without them,
we live with the animals” In this franchise, we can be
certain that for every action, there will be a reaction, and for
every rule that is broken, there will be a deadly consequence. "You dishonor the marker, you die. You kill the holder of the marker,
you die. You run? You die." This guiding principle applies
to everything we see in the plot about a deadly assassin getting sucked
back into the world he tried to leave. “You look terrible.” “No, I look retired." And it also extends behind the camera. The filmmakers and stars hold
themselves to strict creative rules which define the form
of these tightly structured, rigorously rehearsed
and choreographed films. So you might say the John Wick
franchise is an ode to discipline. It’s discipline that elevates
the movies above many of their action contemporaries, and
it’s discipline that makes John Wick the very best in his business. Yet this dogged devotion to rules
pretty much ruins Jon’s life, dragging him further and further
into the mire he desperately wants to escape. “People keep asking if I'm back. And I haven't really had an answer. But now, yeah, I'm thinking I'm back!" So at their essence, these movies
are an investigation into what it really means to live your life
according to a set of personal laws. “We were professionals. Civilized.” “Do I look civilized to you?” Does his extreme rule-following
make John Wick a role model or a cautionary tale? Here’s our Take. plus two Audible originals for free. We may think of contract killing
as a lawless, chaotic enterprise. But the assassin underworld John Wick
exists within is defined by rules that members of this society
respect and abide by “If they're willing to break the rules
of Continental, double the bounty.” In the first movie, we’re introduced
to the Continental, a ritzy hotel for assassins in which no business, i.e. murder,
is permitted to be conducted “No business can be conducted
on these premises lest incurring heavy penalties.” As the world expands in Chapters 2
and 3 to include the mysterious High Table, we get more insight into
how a myriad of archaic regulations govern the actions of every person
in this ecosystem. And on top of this structure, individuals are bound by their word and
the choices they made in their pasts. “Markers," a form of blood oath that assassins swear to each other,
must always be repaid. “For a man to grant a marker to another is to bind a soul to a blood oath.” The filmmakers' commitment to
this central theme means that nearly every single plot development
in the franchise stems from someone breaking a rule
and suffering the consequences. “Two rules that cannot be broken,
Jonathan. No blood on continental grounds, and every marker must be honored.” Once Viggo Tarasov’s greatest assassin, John was offered the rare chance
to exit this game "Suddenly one day, he asked to leave. It was over a woman, of course." on the condition that he kill
all Viggo’s rivals in one night. "So I made a deal with him. I gave him an impossible task" To Viggo's surprise,
John pulled off the impossible, so the agreement was honored. John would be left alone
to live the quiet life. What sets off the plot of these movies is that Viggo’s son Iosef unknowingly
violates this accord. "The bodies he buried that day
laid the foundation of what we are now. And then, my son, a few days after
his wife died, you steal his car and kill his f--BEEP dog." That action leads to John raining hell
down on Tarasov’s entire operation. Thus, movie one is entirely structured
around one character breaking a rule that he, admittedly, didn’t know about, and everyone suffering
the consequences for it. "Your son took that from me,
stole that from me, [yelling] killed that from me!" There are a couple of
interesting implications that follow from all this. First of all,
note that Iosef's ignorance of the rule he broke doesn’t matter here. “It’s not what you did, son,
that angers me so. It’s who you did it to” Intentionality is irrelevant. If you transgress by accident or
on purpose, the outcome is exactly the same, and it makes sense, if your society depends
on strict adherence to law that you can only take into account
an individual’s manifest actions. This ignoring of intentions serves to
preserve order in the assassin world, but it doesn’t allow for
fairness, humanity or mercy. These things are discarded,
in service of law. "It was just a--" Second, it’s not just the
rule-breaker himself who’s punished. The entire community feels the pain “So you can either hand over
your son, or you can die screaming alongside him.” If the balance of peace is to be based on shared laws, everyone
must invest in their enforcement, and that means everyone
must suffer when they’re broken. Thus this society's status quo
is actually very fragile, dependent on total group obedience, which explains why it responds
so brutally to transgressions. "An eye for an eye, John. You know how it goes." The High Table is even shown to exert its influence over the official
authorities of our public world. "You, uh, working again?" "No. Just sorting some stuff out." "Oh well, I’ll leave you be then." If this power system can reduce even
the police, the symbols of the rule of law itself, to tacit sanctioners
of violence and destruction, that implies that no individual
really has any choice but to serve the ways of this assassin’s world. What emerges from this picture is not a
collection of human beings with agency, but just the many parts
of a larger machine. "So you’re free?" "Am I?" "No. Not at all." John Wick: Chapter 2 digs into
the rules and consequences theme even more explicitly. After John comes out of retirement
for several nights of bloody vengeance, he is seen to have returned
to the business of killing. This brings Italian mafia boss
Santino D'Antonio back to America in order to call in the ‘marker’
he has over John. "This is your blood. You came to me. I helped you. If you don’t do this,
you know the consequences." Because John owes him,
he can make John do anything for him. "You had no choice." The ending of Chapter 2 sees John
himself breaking a cardinal rule, when he kills Santino
in the Continental hotel. “What have you done?” “Finished it” After this transgression, Winston then
gives John an hour’s grace period to get away before every assassin
in the city comes for him. “You leave me no choice but to declare you excommunicado” The entire plot of
John Wick: Chapter 3 Parabellum subsequently deals with the fallout of the decisions made
and rules broken in Chapter 2. "A fourteen million dollar bounty
on his head. And everyone in this city wants
a piece of it." Winston is in the crosshairs
of the High Table, who have sent The Adjudicator to the city to investigate
his part in John’s escape. "Mr. Wick broke the rules. I trust you understand the
repercussions if he survives." Even the Bowery King, who helped John in Chapter 2 by giving him
a gun with seven bullets, "So I guess you have a choice. You want a war? Or do you wanna just give me a gun?" "Somebody, please! Get this man a gun!" suffers seven cuts of a sword. There are many more examples of characters suffering the consequences of disregard for the rules "Ms. Perkins. Your membership to
The Continental has been, by thine own hand, revoked." And while the theme might be as
obvious as a shotgun blast to the face, it gives the movies a very rigid structure, which ensures we understand
everyone’s motivations at all times and the films don't feel
chaotic or messy, despite the incredible levels
of action and carnage on display. Meanwhile, on the deeper level, what does this focus on rules
and consequences mean in the John Wick movies? The lesson we can read into
these films is that ultimately that level of commitment to rules
is detrimental over time "Vengeance, it's all you have." John Wick is the very best at
what he does, feared and respected in equal measure by
the assassin underworld. “Well, John wasn't exactly
The Boogeyman. He was the one you sent to
kill the fucking Boogeyman.” And that’s thanks to his strict
adherence to the rules of his training. "John is a man of focus,
commitment, sheer will." As a professional, he thrived within
the structure this gave his life. But as a person he suffers
from his lack of human agency. He's more like a robot or a slave "What brought you back, John?" "A marker." Fundamentally, John never wanted
to go back to the assassin life. “How was life on the other side?” “It was good, Addy. Far better than I deserved” After he’s dragged back in, “You wanted me back. I’m back.” the rules consistently make him
act against his best interests. For every bullet he fires and every assassin he kills, he is dooming himself to more
and more extreme consequences. "No one gets out and comes back without repercussions." He feels he has no choice
but to try and kill his way to a normal life again, as antithetical as that may seem. "Your descent into hell begins here,
Mr. Wick. Earl will guide you. Do be careful on your way down. Oh, and remember, you owe me." "You don’t want me owing you." Yet while Jon believes he has no
agency due to the ways of this world, "I’m not that guy anymore." "You are always that guy, John." there's an interesting discussion
to be had about how conscious he is of his own decisions and motivations. "There’s a part of John Wick that's- that's like he doesn't-he doesn’t care
about the consequences in a way because he’ll deal with it
when he deals with it," Whether John is fighting for revenge
or fighting for his life, “It’s personal." "It’s very personal, but John Wick
kind of gets John in trouble." Reeves’ take, then, is that John
is reactive, not proactive, and is his own worst enemy, which implies that John does
have a choice in all of this. “Jonathan, just walk away.” It's just that the course of
action he chooses is bad for him. "You should have just run away. You
know what the Camorra will do to you." John is reacting to things exactly as he has been conditioned
to by his assassin training. "Whoever comes, whoever it is,
I’ll kill them. I’ll kill them all." It would be better for his health, and the health of everyone around him, to diffuse the situation by removing
himself from the equation entirely. But in light of Reeves' comments, a deeper reading of his psychology
could be that he has re-awoken the demon inside himself, and subconsciously he's driven by
the fact that he enjoys what he does. "You dip so much as a pinky
back into this pond, you may well find something reaches out and drags you back into its depth." Some fans have dubbed John Wick
an ‘artist of death.' And he's undoubtedly the best there is
at finding novel ways to kill people. "I once saw him kill three men
in a bar, with a pencil." He might tell himself he is doing
all this for the memory of his wife, or simply to survive,
or because he has to. But maybe, deep down, he’s addicted to the violence and death. “I think you are addicted to it. To the vengeance.” John Wick could never truly
live a normal life. "The man. The myth. The legend. You’re not very good at retiring." "I’m working on it." The theme of rules and consequences
extends beyond the fiction of the John Wick franchise
to the creation and form of the movies. The direction, cinematography,
and action choreography are all governed by a strict code of rules. “I mean the director wants
to make it immersive, wants to make it like a performance, so there’s really long takes.” Director Chad Stahelski
and his creative team film every action scene in
long, extended takes that show the insanely precise fight choreography
in all its wonderful detail. Stahelski never chooses quick cuts, obfuscates his action, or resorts to a shaky cam sequence to fake
excitement or intensity. Instead, he trains his actors
for months before they shoot, working on choreography, and the
grueling rehearsal period means on set, every sequence is captured in
as few takes as possible. Every gunshot, every punch,
and every kick matters. The Wick movies feel like
controlled chaos. The camera work is so precise that the audience always knows
what is happening, why it is happening,
and who it is happening to. Stahelski also cast one of the world's
most physically dedicated actors to lead the franchise. Stahelski was Keanu Reeves' stunt
double for The Matrix movies, so their relationship goes back
a long way, and it’s easy to see why the two men work so well together. One of the main selling points of
the Wick movies is Keanu’s commitment to doing as much of the action
as possible. “I do probably like 85-90%
of the action.” It means the audience always sees it is recognizably him in the action
scenes and not a stunt performer. Videos of Keanu practicing on a gun
range demonstrating his adeptness with firearms went viral, and you
can watch footage of him learning the complicated fight choreography with martial arts teachers. It’s been said that Keanu will train
for eight hours a day for six months in preparation for a Wick movie,
which is far more than the customary eight weeks that
most actors prep for a blockbuster. Stahelski and Reeves are the
ultimate action movie professionals because they follow the rules
they set up for themselves, approaching the John Wick movies
with the same level of commitment and insane precision as the
assassins in their movies. If they ever broke their rules, the consequence would be a film
that just didn't feel like the trademark controlled chaos
that defines John Wick. "Best way to fake being good
is just to be good. And that takes sweat, blood, and tears. It's a level of commitment
that is not normal." Fusion of form and content is
the gold standard of creative work, and by embodying the discipline
that defines John Wick himself, these movies stand apart from most
of their action movie contemporaries. We might extract some professional
advice from their example, too. Evidently, diligently sticking to
a well-chosen set of rules lays the foundation for career excellence Yet the moral of the John Wick story
lies in the personal implications that allegiance to rules
and consequences has on a human being. What good does it do him to be the greatest assassin
the world has ever known, if he’s constantly fighting for
his life and desperately trying to evade the dreaded consequences
of his actions? We can learn from John that, while a code of laws will help
in our pursuit of excellence, we should first step back
and make sure we’re pursuing something worth being excellent at. It may feel all-important to rise
to the top of your field and chase machine -like technical perfection, but if what you do has
a negative impact on the world, then isn’t it worse to be better at it? “Now, as I recall, weren't you
the one tasked to dole out the beatings, not receive them?” “Rusty, I guess.” This deadly killer is no hero. He’s a warning to ambitious
workaholics everywhere. An inhuman existence of cold rigidity
and regularity will destroy you from the inside and from without, no
matter how great you are at your job. “This life follows you. It clings to you, infecting everyone who comes
close to you.” What John Wick needs is a little
bigger-picture perspective, to stop being reactive,
and feeling like he has no choice because we’re not robots. We always have a choice. Rules were made to be adapted and updated, according to context. And if the rulebook makes no sense, then we shouldn’t be in that
particular game at all. “Have you returned to the fold?” “Just visiting.” 