First, in the morning, I just like to check out my planner or bullet journal to see whatever I have to do and do a bit of journaling and writing I also like to listen to soft background music while I'm doing my work, and one of my all time favorite playlist on Spotify is the "Productive Morning" playlist, which features a mix of Jazz and instrumental tracks. I usually divide my morning into two specific stages: In the first part I like to tackle all of my heavy duty studying which means creating summaries, flashcards, or mind maps I feel that dealing with tasks first allows me to feel more accomplished and be able to create study materials so I can study them in the second part of my morning Also, studying actively instead of passively allows me to boost my energy levels, instead of slumping back to sleep. The study materials that I create during this time, are what I call study guides or quick start guides. I just gather all of my theoretical information and try to come up with a structure that I may use in my future exam. So I can answer according to certain number of my ideas and topics that are fundamental to getting a good answer. This means that when I'm studying for exams, I am mainly concerned in creating these guides since they are what is going to get me through my exams. This also means that one of my main goals while studying, is gathering the most information possible, and in separate segments summarize it more and more until I only have the essentials and the most abridged information I can get. That makes review for exams much easier, and it also enables me to carry these study materials around since the end up being just six or seven pieces of paper. I normally end up storing the study guides in the side pockets of my binder, so I can quickly store, and access them, and also flip through different study guides on different subjects so I don't focus only on one of my courses. After I finish writing my guides and materials, I will dedicate the second half of my morning to read thoroughly through notes on the next chapter. I will highlight my notes, write on the margins, add questions I have, and overall make sure that I understand the concept behind the text. I read this as intensely as I can. and not just skim through the text, because my main goal is understanding the information as best I can and still remember it the morning after, so in the first half of the next morning I can write study materials regarding the information that I read in the second half of yesterday's morning. This is actually a great  exercise for me, since I can test how much I remember from the day before and how many main topics and ideas I can portray into my study guides, without having to read information prior. If somehow I feel that I'm not quite comfortable with that material, I will just reread it thoroughly again,  and afterwards proceed to create my guides. Also, if you want to know how I type my notes I have a step-by-step video which you can click on the down bar. Just before lunch, I will pick up my bullet journal again, cross out all the things I accomplished that morning, my  graded*tasks for the next day, if I didn't manage to  complete them, or add more tasks, like creating complimentary articles or creating extra study materials if I feel that  I'm not entirely secure in my studying. I hope you've enjoyed this video. Don't forget to subscribe, and I will see you next week, bye! 