Hello everyone! Today’s video will focus on the best way
to get motivated in order to start school with the right foot. For school advice and tips follow me on Instagram
and Tumblr where I post every day. Also, don’t forget to subscribe and click
the bell button to get notified for all my back to school videos coming up this summer. I will post twice a week until the mid of
September so you can kickstart your school year fully prepared. For a full schedule just check the description
box below in case you are curious about a specific topic. First and foremost I think that it’s fundamental
to get involved with other people with the same goals in order to get more motivated
to study. You can do this either by creating local study
groups in your school or college or get on your computer and search for an online community
that shares tips and advice to get you more inspired to do your work. One of the things that I tell myself a lot
is that I have the right to have a fresh start whenever I want. Most people use static dates or times of the
year to restart their lives and live up to their goals but most of the times we use the
New Year and the start of a new school year as an excuse. The thing is, you can restart fresh anytime
you want. It can be tomorrow, next week, or even today,
at noon. Every single day is good enough to start rebuilding
your habits and routines and work towards your objectives. With this mindset, you are able to disconnect
from any past failures and start promoting a big-picture view of life. The key to be more motivated is setting one
goal at a time. That can either consist on small goals like
doing your calculus homework or getting at the top of the class by the end of the semester. No goal is to big or too small and you should
always have something to look for on the horizon. A good tip is to write your goal on your main
planner, inspiration board or even stick it on your fridge or bathroom mirror. Visualizing your goal gives it key importance
and turns it into an abstract notion into something clear that you can reach and work
towards. Also, it’s absolutely important to make
sure you are setting realistic and small goals alongside your main one. That is probably the best advice I can give
you for more motivation. If your goal is to get that scholarship or
internship, just writing that down on paper won’t be enough to offer the best approach
on how to get it. However, if you find smaller things to reach
that goal like improving your resume, signing up for an extra class, do research on a certain
topic, email the people responsible for the scholarship attribution, an impossible task
will automatically feel reachable and approachable. For extra motivation, don’t forget to share
your goals with others. You can share them with close family or friends
or with the online community. Sharing your goals with others makes you accountable
for them – it basically works as a psychological trigger that you can use to make sure you
are doing your best to achieve the things you set out to do. Ask someone to check up on you from time to
time regarding your work or studies. Even the laziest person will feel more motivated
when they feel that their progress is being controlled by someone else. Ditch the inspirational quotes and start reading
inspiration stories or testimonies instead. A motivation quote can boost your motivation
for a few seconds but that’s it. A cliché quote doesn’t have a long lasting
impact in your productivity levels. However, a real story about someone who had
the same unmotivated mind-set as you and was still able to overcome it and accomplish something
in life – that can create an impact in the way you see and do things and will boost your
productivity. Another important way to get motivated to
study is arranging a comfortable and adequate study space. I will talk about this further in my next
video where I show you my new study space and how I’ve managed to organize and get
everything I need for a productive study session. Motivation has everything to do with commitment
so scheduling, planning, and timing tasks plays a major role on how energized you feel
to get your work done. I know that planning is something that I talk
about in most of my videos but it’s something that’s in the basis of everything – a
good study schedule, an organized mind and a balanced life can be better achieved through
planning your day and saving personal time. There are tons of planning systems that you
can try out – for that, the best you can do is check out my Planning playlist or my
back to school planner comparison video. All the links are provided in the description
box below. So I hope you’ve enjoyed today’s video! Don’t forget to subscribe to my channel
for more school tips and advice and I will see you next Friday. Bye! 