(No. 1 brand reputation in May 2020) (All-around concept craftsman) (7 members with 7 strongest charm) Oh My Girl The K-pop stars' attractive time that fans want to see! The behind of Inkigayo! Shindonggayo Hello everyone, this is Shindong The guest who came to Shindonggayo today At the same time as the comeback, they ranked # 1 in the music chart and # 1 in 7 iTunes countries and attracted all the global fans I think it will be the year of these people in 2020 Vitamin fully charged by just watcing It's Oh My Girl who came back with the title song 'Nonstop' Two, three found you, Oh My Girl Hello this is Oh My Girl good Hello, I ’m Oh My Girl ’s Jiho. Thank you.
(Miracle's Endorphin Jiho) Hello everyone I'm your vitamin Oh My Girl's Candy Hyojung. I ’m Oh My Girl ’s eternal Cupid YooA. You are also a member of Shindonggayo
You were with us last time Yes, this is Oh My Girl's Binnie
(Smart Binnie) Binnie, please go and get dressed.
Why did you cut it in half (Only Binnie can look good on this unique designed with half disappeared) Yes, this is Oh My Girl's rapper Mimi. Yes, this is Oh My Girl's youngest Arin. Hello Oh My Girl's cute lead vocal
Seunghee Nice to meet you all 7 members We actually do TMI news in the beginning Please share a few stories such as a hobby that you are very into thesedays, Hyojeong? My hobby is riding a bicycle in Seoul. So I bought a season teicket Oh really? Wouldn't it be cheaper to buy a bike instead? No it's much cheaper Ah, I haven't tried it yet It only needs 50,000 won for a season ticket Oh yeah? Yes, so it’s only 50,000 won even if you ride everyday Wow really good
(Solgi) Now, if you have something else to boast, please Mimi customizes shoes Yes i make sneakers Ah, like buying something expensive and customizing it? No, I don't buy anything expensive 
Because I put meaning on making it Did Mimi customized all the shoes today? I made it all ... You can do it for us You're doing this with white shoes like this
(Thanks Jiho) Yes yes yes yes Can you make it if I ask for it? I'll do it. I'll do it. If I give you my shoes now, can you do it here? I'll do it. I'll do it. Oh not this one... okay... I want to do it from pink to black I'm sorry, I will stop talking
(Quick apologizing) Now, with Oh My Girl
Let's start the first game Oh My Girl doesn’t need anything else.
Let's go straight to the game Now the game
It's a corner prepared for Idol Master Oh My Girl. Shall we play a game with Shindong? In this game, 2 with good chemistry will be one team
It's time to find the team with the best chemistry. Speak with your body You all know this game, right? I know, I know When one explains with body, the other one will guess. But you're 7 now Originally, we were thinking of dividing the team into 2, 2, 3 members.
Then something seems to be against equity. So one of you are going to team up with me Four teams will play a game. So for the team that gets the most correct answers will get the Ice cream voucher Wow show us We are really giving you the voucher Right to the manager. I randomly divided the team First, the oldest and the youngest will be one team. Hyojung and Arin are teaming up. Screwed up what? You're screwed up? Who? Me They are saying that they are screwed up
Next, the members who were born in 1997 will be one team Now there are three members who were born in 1995
One of you should do it with me (95 Seunghee, YooA, Mimi)
Should I choose? Please choose Oh Me? (Worry) It's Mimi YooA and Seunghee. You have to choose well In fact, YooA was a MC with me once And I danced with Mimi at 'Knowing Brother' The last one left, Seunghee, I don’t want to pick her somehow (Not understandable) It's a joke
(Everyone stop this) Seunghee and I had broadcast together but
I don't think I've ever done something together Yes I will choose Seunghee! (Completion of team formation, 97's / 95's / Oldest & Yongest / Dongseungs) Are we picking it?
(Mission word drawn by random) 4? You pick well, you pick well
(First Challenge, Team 97) I'll do it with 4 You picked 4
Others can interfere Time limit is 100 seconds. 100 seconds Let's go! Now, get ready~ Start! The first one
(hunger) Stomachache hungry stomach Ok correct (Dolphin)
Dolphin Ok correct oh well done (Parents are patterns) Oh good job
submarine? That's so difficult I don't know what it is In the sky What rabbits say from heaven Umchichi Umchichi Umchichi Umchichi (The top is clear and down) Carrot carrot Twinkle up and down pass okay This is difficult
(Sloth) Sloth! Oh correct! (Nonstop)
Nonstop Okay ~ good (Laughing hard) Smile, Laughing hard Correct! (Squid) House umbrella mushroom tree christmas tree skewers bandit squid (Aerobics) (Happily Jump) Cheerleading, aerobics! Correct! wow (Cute) Lovely? Cute ~ Cute! Oh right (Michael Jackson)
Micheal Jackson!!! (Banana)
(Banana allergy monkey ~) Banana Allergy Monkey! Wrong
Unit Banana Monkey Banana! Banana correct ok ends!
It's been 100 seconds (Did I do good?)
(Well done) Now it's 10 answers! (Mimsha 95's) They are real entertainment (Oh My Girl's recommended entertainment 95's) Let's look forward to it
Start (Fox)
Oh, it ’s difficult but good job, good job Giraffe Giraffe
Puppy Puppy Wolf Cat Hey it's exactly the same (Frustrated)
Goat It lives in the water They'll end up here (Let's stay calm and try again Mimi) Ow~ Wolf puppy hippo pass Now the first question pass (A mother with a large brood never has a peaceful day) Hey this is so easy (branch) L? clock? clock? kite? Love O'clock ?! Correct (Joke) Pass Pass Hey don't pass it anymore (unfair)
My heart hurts My heart hurts Heart I don't have a heart! (the nameplate falls down)
My heart hurts Goblin? mad (Shasha is getting mad)
(With Jiho shouting that she doesn't have a heart) (Mimi is frustrated)
what is that!! No, I think we don't need to interrupt Hey stop interfering (Crazy entertainment chemistry) pass (Chicken)
Chicken! Oh right ~ (Ironman)
Fighting Explaining this like that? Stop for a moment. (Crazy Speak with your body) Why ~! Stop, palm She made a sound bird!? do not know Ironman right (Squirrel) rabbit! No~ Stop! 100 seconds ~ How many questions did they get? 2 ~ A team of rivals from the previous team just came out now
(Mimsha's rival team) This is also entertainment now.
They picked No.1. I think they will do well Start~ (Spiderman) Uh sound! You can't make a sound (Complains against leader's sound) Spiderman Spiderman! Ok Correct but Warning Warning (Seal) Oh yes
What is that hahaha cat! bowwow! dog! what! Strange and scary Fox! A wolf? Hey, does it act like this? She is so weird, she explains so weirdly What are you doing? (Shocked) Pass Pass seal! Already passed
(Not accpetable) (Frustrated) Frustrated! Ok correct (Shindong) (Expecting inwardly) you can do it! (Sorry Sorry) Super Junior! Oh yeah
(in those!) (Something big like this) Oh yeah! It's perfect!!!! Shindong
(Oh My Girl going crazy at the explanation) Correct
You come to me after this She was so correct that I can't say anything (Jesse-Even a warm will turn) River, ocean, ocean, waves, wave, cold water? ice? fish! What is she doing? (She is weird)
pass Oh, somebody tell her not to do that!! (Lalaland) Good good! Figure skating figure What is that Oh Pinocchio pass (Half moon bear) Until here~ Hey, who explains a half moon bear like this (The explanations that only Hyojung understands) Hyojung and Arin got 4 answers Wow we did well Will you explain or guess? You choose Here are too experts(?) Let me explain (Collaboration of two gods of entertainment) (Cute Seunghee, a talented performer) (Game genius Shindong) They are so professional here
(Entertainment experts gathered) Are you ready? Yeah! (Train To Busan) You made a sound Zombie Zombie! Subway ah! Train To Busan Oh good job (sad)
It's sad, sad (Pizza)
Oh this cheese pizza! Let's interrupt! (Too many cooks spoil the broth)
Paddled! Ship! Oh, paddle when the water comes in! A house? A house ~?
(Interference 1) Oh, going there, going there.
(Interference 2) Oh, yes, yes, let's pass (Camel) chimpanzee! monkey! (This on the back) Oh Seunghee! Oh, what is it? It's Seunghee! Seunghee! on your back
Your back hurts your back hurts, grandmother? no! uh! No no Gorilla, King Kong Pass Pass
(Magic) (Embarrased) ballet? Nutcracker doll Mime mime Oh I got it! Pumpkin yeot What? Magic? (Curious) What, Shindongayo? What is that How about a game like this? Inkigayo! Curious okay! (Hippo) Crocodile! Hippo! (Nail Shop) Nail art nail nails
Nail art house? (Instead of house!) Nail shop! End! Now, how many answers!? 7 answers Oh, only that? I think we got a lot Oh sorry what was this? camel! Oh, camel like that? Then what should I do (Fight or not) I'll announce today's 1st prize (It was so close) Congratulations to Binnie and Jiho for the first place today. I'll give you the voucher Please look at this side and look at the left side and look at the middle. Thank you Are you hungry? Yeah We prepared for the hungry Oh My Girl This is the corner specially requested by the owner of cafeteria at Inkigayo! Oh really? Shall we shoot a CF for cafeteria at Inkigayo? You know, the cafeteria at Inkigayo is so famous. Yeah Starting with idol sandwiches, there are a lot of foods famous these days. And they are looking for a model here now The owner of the cafeteria commissioned us directly. Believe it or not For the member who is picked, we What are you going to give us? 100,000 won gift card of Inkigayo!!! (really?) (I want that) 100,000 won wow Choosing the first runner is the most difficult
So, let's point out the one member and let her start first Raise your finger and think
Please choose one person One two three tada Arin Arin Arin Arin Arin Arin got 5 votes
(Members love Arin) Choi Arin Choi Arin Other members targets Arin because she's was once an advertising model The noodle is getting soggy
(Arin's pick is Jjajang ramen) Okay, before it becomes soggy (impressed) Now get ready and camera
(Today's CF director Shindong) Just look at the camera over there. I have to turn it like this (envy) (Rolled up and into the mouth) (Shoulder dance automatically comes up) Oh it's steaming (Arin style noodle eating) Good~ our baby Now, after chewing, make the last comment Do you eat again?
(Already a third time again) Aren't you eating too much? CF is 30 seconds, but it will end after eating. She just wanted to eat it What will she say? I'm today's cook (Impressed by the youngest chef's declaration) Yeah, this ramen must have that comment
Oh it was good Who's next? Please choose, Arin Eye contacted Jiho Professional eater Does Jiho usually like to eat? She really likes ramen Ah, I'll go with ramen. The company sent us Ramen because Jiho eats so pretty The company sent us this much The company sent us 3 boxes of ramen when we were doing a live show If you eat this well today, Ottugi will send it (You can't hide the trademark)
Samyang sent us ramen a lot so Yeah, CF may come in Let's go CF Arin goes to japaghetti She surely eats well Let's start with the scene of eating (Artistic eating) If it's a little raw She eats so well Now the final comment is ready, right? More spicy and flavor, chamggae ramen Wow, the company will love it Now, Mimi's turn I'll try with this
(Mimi's pick 'Yubu Sushi') Oh I want it, too Mimi, I'm sorry but there are 4 flavors So open it and say, "Well ~ what shall I eat today?" first Are you ready? The camera is ready,
Ready action uh!? A new menu came out at the cafeteria? Now NG It was awkward. Or I will act a role of an aunt at the cafeteria Please do something like this
(Laughing hard at Mimi's acting) "I'm hungry after the stage ~ What shall I eat?" Ready action
(Hungry Mimi's Yubu Sushi CF) Wow really hungry Now wait a minute Mimi, don't say you are very hungry.
Not like that
(So different from rapping) A little more accurately Okay Ready Action Wow aren't you really hungry? Come on come on
This is a new menu Oh really? Give me this. Today is rice Is it rice today? Wow, look at the color looks delicious Today's FEEL is Bulgogi
Protein Did you think I would eat only a bite? Oh is it all in? Mimi Success Hey can you chew? Your mouth is really big Wow, amazing
(In the meantime, even a wink) Oh there was a strong point Chew slowly YooA's turn Everyone chose foods now, so I will go with a gum Oh it's a unexpected choice You'll win if you blow it Yes, if you blow it Oh then success Her lips are so pretty
(The thick lips are attractive points) Let's go! Action Um, I ate rice and I care about my teeth
(Perfect commenting) Ah! Yes, there was ID Now take out the gum Oh ~~ It's popping! It's Tik Tak Tok ID! Wow, so good! You are so good! Today I'm a cook More spicy and flovor! Chamggae ramen! Is everything going in Tic-tac-talk ID The first place among them is..? I'll choose a jelly Jelly is good
(3 people busy eating) Please focus on everyone
I'll take CF Oh, okay, think of it as CF Arin! Warning
Arin, please concentrate I'll give it to you after a while, so look at Hyojung I'll go with peach jelly Are you starting with the comment? Yes at once (Busy with eating ramen and seeing Hyojung at once) Now action Said I'm the prettiest when I eat When I see you, my cheeks become red like this? I think it's NG? fail I know why it's NG why? The product is main of the advertisement But Hyojung was the main here It disappeared too soon Please make the ending comment a little more certain
I like the comment so far. It's really delicious Ready ~ Arin warning Arin, please ~
Get ready and Start Said I'm the prettiest when I eat
They say I look the best when I eat the peach jelly Good job!
This was the best The diction was good, the comment was good, the tone was good, and even the music Should I do it first? It's very burden to do at last I want to do this Oh, this is an advertisement that became so famous by Soyou Because this is actually a bit healthy flavor so you need to show some health matches well Ready action Don't be embarrassed Good comment? The last comment is? Would you like to get a splash with me? (Cool explosion)
(Excited at Binnie's comment) The comment was good Would you like to get a splash? Wow~ It was so good It was so good Now, we have met a challenge of Oh My Girl for CF Queen According to the results of the production team, today's CF Queen will be decided. To the first place, I will tell you again,
the voucher for the cafeteria at Inkigayo will be given Ah, I really want it I'll go and see for a moment (MC Dong also participates in the evaluation) There's such a DNA Arin~! (After meal to dessert) Oh, we don’t pick anyone
We fairly rated I'll announce
Oh My Girl's CF Queen Then, I will announce today's No. 1
Congratulations The result delivered by the owner of the cafeteria!
The first place is! The first place is! Congratulations, her comment was the best! Binnie~!!! Get a splash ~ Show us an encore Would you like to get a splash with me? It was so good
Good job good job Let's listen to Binnie who became the CF Queen with the voucher I'm a regular customer of the cafeteria Yeah, she really is I feel so good and love you, the owner of the cafeteria!
(Say that we'll use it all together) But you can't really bring this to the owner This is just for broadcasting Now, it's time to finish Shindonggayo. It was so much fun with Oh My Girl
And the album already hit the jackpot, But to hope you guys hit the jackpot forever, I'll make a flower road for you Oh My Girl, just walk on the flower path Congratulations Congratulations! So far, it was Shindonggayo with Oh My Girl
Shindonggayo 