Hello, my geeks and peeps, my Explainers and Entertainers, my little oodle lallies. Rebecca Parham here. Throughout my young life,
I've had a handful of noteworthy uh, [reads] people who habitually seek out to harm or intimidate those whom they perceive as vulnerable. Oh, sorry. YouTube now demonetizes the “b” word,
and I don't mean Beetlejuice. Beetlejuice. Beetlejuice. At my preparatory school,
pretty much most of my classmates didn't like me and picked on me from time to time. But a few of them made it a more regular thing. One such individual was a girl that we’ll call Milly. She was a troubled young soul, little on the mad side. Had difficulty understanding
why people got upset when she punched them. MILLY: Aw, come on! We were just having fun! To be fair, I wasn't her only target;
she was an equal opportunity irritant. She tormented girls, boys, big kids, small kids,
kids that climb on rocks, everyone. And she did everything from cheap insults,
to stealing, to physical violence. When you're young,
adults tell you to stand up to kids like her defend the innocent, be a hero, do the right thing. What they don't tell you is that sometimes
doing the right thing still gets you in trouble. Milly, I know you're probably out there, grown up and a better person, but I'm using you as an example. On with the show! It was sixth grade when Milly and I had our
…little incident. That year, we had gotten a brand-new kid we'll call Greg. Greg was a troubled soul, too. He had a very poor family life, all of the kids in the class relentlessly picked on him, and he often retaliated not with his words, but his fists. He hated everyone, and everyone hated him. Well, except me. Seeing how he was a fellow social outcast,
I couldn't bring myself to be mean to him. And in turn, he was never mean to me.
You could even say we were friendly for a while. Now at this tiny school, we didn't have a cafeteria. We all ate in the gym, so one lunch time Greg and I were sitting on the bleachers eating and talking. Now when Greg wasn't pummeling
the kids who made fun of him, he kept a journal. (Probably should have been his first choice for emotional expression, but, hey, I'm no psychologist.) And this day, he had his journal sitting out next to him on the bleachers. As we talked, Milly came over—you remember her— she stood there chatting with us
until she spied Greg's journal. MILLY: Ooo, what's this? GREG: Don't touch it! It's my journal. MILLY: A journal? Come on! Let's see it! In a flash, Milly snatched the book out of his hands
and ran off with it. Greg gave chase, and to escape him,
Milly ran into the girls’ locker room. By the time I caught up with the two,
Greg was standing just outside the locker room. Milly was standing just inside with the door open, and she was reading from his journal out loud to the other girls inside,
knowing full well he couldn't go in to stop her. And remember Greg was a troubled kid. There might have been some really heavy stuff
in that journal that she was about to spill everywhere. I saw all of this unfolding in front of me,
and I knew I had to do something. This was not right. Time to stand up, as the adults say. So, I ran into the locker room
and began tussling with Milly for the journal. No one was getting hurt, mind you,
just a lot of pulling and shuffling. But tug of war quickly escalated into war. Give you three guesses who took it too far. We struggled for about 10 seconds before…it happened. The next thing I knew, she grabbed my wrist
and bit down as hard as she could. I screamed full voice and let go of the journal. When she finally let go of me, I looked down at my wrist a perfectly gruesome bite in my skin. And it was pretty gnarly looking, too. Those serrated indentions;
it was already starting to bruise. And it was slobbery. Thankfully, she didn't break the skin,
because, listen, human bites are nothing to sneeze at. Do a Google search. Mayo Clinic says to seek
emergency care if the skin is broken. Apparently, we all have Komodo dragon mouths
full of dangerous bacteria. Actually, that kind of makes you rethink kissing. YOUNG REBECCA: You--you bit me you actually bit me. What the hell is wrong with you? You're insane! I'm going to the nurse! Suddenly, Milly wasn't so concerned about Greg
and his journal anymore. I marched right to the nurse's office
with Milly behind me trying to convince me not to go. When I showed the nurse the bite, she disinfected it and called the principal. We both got sent to his office. I told him my story, but when it was Milly’s turn
to tell hers, she actually had the gall to say: MILLY: When she put her arm across my back,
I couldn't breathe. She was about to suffocate me,
so you see, I had no choice but to bite her. REBECCA: Objection, your honor! No, I didn't say that. I didn't say anything in that moment,
because it wasn't “my turn to talk.” And honestly, I was getting a little freaked out, because
the principal was acting like I was just as guilty as Milly. I don't know if he honestly believed her lies,
but he listened to our stories, and said, PRINCIPAL: Well, because both of you were horseplaying
in the bathroom, you're both in trouble. YOUNG REBECCA: Horseplay? PRINCIPAL: I'll be calling your parents today. Rebecca, you'll be getting five demerits.
And Milly, normally, I'd give you five as well, but because this is the second time I've seen you
in my office this year, you will be getting ten. [heavy slam] [heavy slam] REBECCA: I have several objections! Let's get this straight. My crime, my punishable offense was getting bitten while defending another kid. And the person who bit me would have gotten the exact same punishment as me
if it hadn't been her second offense. Excuse me, who hurt you? Yeah, sure, maybe I could have politely asked
the little sadist for the journal back, like she'd actually give it back. But I don't care who you are, there's a very big difference between tug-of-war to get stolen property back and a full-blown bite that could have
potentially ended in a hospital trip. REBECCA [Southern accent]: Lord, help us! Becca's angry. Even as outrageous as it all was, I was beside myself. All I could think about in that moment was that I was in trouble. I was supposed to be the good kid,
the peacekeeper, the clean record. YOUNG REBECCA [thinking]: Five demerits, and he's calling my parents? They only do that for the bad kids. Am I a bad kid now? Oh, Mom and Dad are gonna be so mad at me! He sent us back to class, and for the rest of the day, I was a nervous wreck,
dreading the sound of that final bell. For sure, the principal had called Mom, and the moment I set foot in her car, I was a goner. Well, the end of the day came,
and I solemnly walked to my mom's car. It felt like I was walking to my own execution. I got in and silently awaited my fate. MAMA PARHAM: Hey sweetie,
We're gonna be here a little bit longer. We're waiting on your sister
to get out of basketball practice. YOUNG REBECCA [thinking]: That--that's it?
No screaming, no lecture, no punishment? She's not even gonna bring it up? REBECCA: I was a tad confused. YOUNG REBECCA [thinking]: Wait a minute. She didn't get a call from the principal. She doesn't know what happened. Well, that's not right. She needs to know,
or I got this bite on my arm for nothing. YOUNG REBECCA [inhaling]: Look what Milly did to me. MAMA: Oh, hell no! [sound of thundering footsteps running in hall] [DOOR SLAM] MAMA [roaring]: Explain yourself, KNAVE! We were in that principal's office for a good half hour, and Mom calmly explained,
over and over and over again, the absurdity of it all. How backwards it is to punish a child for essentially being assaulted,
especially while defending another child. Hmm, and here I was,
terrified that she was gonna be mad at me. By the end of it, she couldn't convince the principal to remove the five demerits,
but it almost didn't matter anymore. I had done what's right. I stood up for what I believed in,
and the people that mattered knew it. It may come with consequences,
but doing good is its own reward. And after that day, Milly backed off,
and rarely bothered me or Greg ever again. Just goes to show what can come from one act of bravery. Please promise me
that you will stay safe and stay home, Explainers. Thank you so much for tuning in,
but now I must tune out. Bye! [cheerful piano] 