(Still doing homework over break) What are you doing? Me? Homework I didn't do it yesterday
and I'm so behind now! Are you not eating? (Acting normal) Me? I ate already All you had was kimchi I had kimchi rice and fruits (Gyuri is concerned(?)
Jiheon didn't eat enough food) I want some orange though (Gyuri is ready to go outside) Gyuri, bye! (Quickly) I went to the gym and worked out very hard (Hehehe(Shy)) I'm on my way to the gym Let's go and destroy it! Let's go! (Working out for real!) Since last August, I never skipped
exercising for 3 days or longer You may get sick if you live like that (…?? Hahaha) She's not a grandma I'm trying to get healthy! I'm trying to get in shape
for my body shape profile I'm preparing to enter
a body building contest (Hahahaha) During the period when I'm on break, I tried to go out to the gym
at least 4~5 times It's hard to working out at home So I have to go to the gym,
so I try hard to go to the gym (The movie didn't end yet…★) (She said she won't watch it,
but she is watching it again) Why is that movie so long? Argh!! (Annoyed) (Fast-forwarding the movie hahaha) We're done!! It was fun (Soulless) It was fun, it was a fun one (Seoyeon liked(?) the movie very much) I'm curious the ending, but
I couldn't keep watching it I kept fast-forwarding it Was it a horror movie? It was a horror movie Scary elements were subtle
and blended well into the plot You must've watched a horror movie
because of Nagyung! - Gyuri turned it on first!
- Nagyung likes horror movies! - Oh really?!
- Gyuri - Nagyung doesn't get scared!
- That's right, she doesn't at all Wow so amazing, scary Long ago, there was a movie
with an alligator I think? The movie with the alligator I hid behind her back and
went 'Oh my goodness!!' as I watched it Nagyung doesn't get scared at all,
she's so brave (Nagyung who doesn't get scared
is ready to go upstairs as well) (Hayoung is back from the gym) You knew my thoughts, I was
going to buy some crab sticks! Hayoung, Hayoung, Hayoung! (Saerom missed Hayoung so much) It ends at 3 o'clock Do you want to start working at 4 o'clock? I'll tell them we will start
working at 4 o'clock (Saerom hands her place over to Hayoung)
I'll get going now~ - Bye~
- Where are you going? It's pretty Saerom!! (Oops) Give this to Nagyung please?! (Saerom forgot to change her shirt) This is pretty (Hayoung bought snacks
for the others to eat) - Do you want crab sticks?
- I will have some later I want some! I want some! - Here here(Aw)
- We said we really wanted crab sticks! Baby shark, Du dudu Du  Du dudu! Baby Du dudu Du Du dudu!!
Baby crab stick!! (Back from the gym, preparing dinner) - One who chooses first owns it~ (Life lesson)
- Picking this was so hard! Wow!! It looks good! I like crab sticks! (Nom nom) (Saerom got changed
and left to go upstairs) Just leave it on the floor Thank you~ See you~ See you~ (Hayoung is having a light dinner) (Having another Ten Ten jelly…) Wow look at me (Making herself look better(?)) (Jiheon concentrates on homework again) Ah! Why? Why? Get off me!! (In pain) Ouch my stomach! - Ouch my stomach, ouch my stomach
- This is really low in calories What is it made of? (It's about time(?) she gets
curious about crab sticks) Pollack Cute Wow! Party for us again! (Jiwon requests Chaeyoung to sing) Something calm? (Chaeyoung's playlist 1st song) Yum!! The crab stick is good! (All Jiwon cares about is crab sticks)
I'd have this for all 3 meals You'll get sick of it then No! I think I can eat it
all the time, don't you agree? - Just this?
- Yes! Just eat this when you are hungry!
This is low in calories too! The song Jiwon likes! (Chaeyoung's playlist 2nd song) Oh my goodness! I keep eating
because it's so good Did you eat the whole pack? (Shocked) - No, I ate it
- Oh I was so surprised I'm finishing this pack! (Jiwon got hyper because
of the crab sticks) I feel like they will see me
only eating in the video You didn't eat that much! (Talking about how much
they ate(?) Hahaha) With how many sticks, will I get
sick of them?! Challenge eating show! Thank you for the food! Are you done? (Jiwon is done with crab sticks) She didn't eat much! Huh?? She only had 7 (Wait) Did you eat
all the snacks here too? I bought this! Have some, have some! (No, it's fine hahaha) I thought you had some with Chaeyoung - Had what?
- The snacks - The snacks
- All these? I ate them all! (Got bold) She ate a lot I did eat a lot, I ate
so much snacks She did eat a lot~ I really want chicken so bad! (Suddenly talking about chicken)
I want seasoned fried chicken (Bbu*kle) I have a coupon! Bbu*kle with cheese balls! (Chicken -> cheese ball time) - I know, I know
- Cheese ball is good by itself - I know~ It is, it is
- Do you like cheese ball? I never had it! (?!?!?!) Or did I? Hayoung What a shocking statement you just made! - You never had it?! (Shocked)
- I never had the cheese ball with the chicken (They are so shocked(?))
Really? You aren't lying? - It is a bit sweet??
- Yes! Seriously I'm so shocked (The world is before and after cheese ball…★)
Hayoung It tastes a bit like sticky rice The bread is so moist It's because of the cheese inside Aw, Hayoung (Chaeyoung is sad Hayoung haven't had cheese balls)
I may have had it You could never forget that taste In my coupon box, I have seasoned chicken, red sausages
and rice cakes, coke 1.5 L When will you eat this? (Back to talking about chicken(?))
Just fried I like the one with sauce Or legs Legs, ahhh!! I really want it It was cute how your legs came up
to here when you stretched them You stretched them and here! (Showing Jiwon's feet because they are cute)
Chicken is so good Jiwon can eat it too No, Jiwon lost weight these days Wait, I think I gained weight a little now (1 spoon of cuteness + 1 spoon of pretty
+ more than enough attractiveness!!!) (Staring hard) (…?? Maybe too much attractiveness…) Hehe!! Our room looks cozy! (Got happier thinking about chicken) (Hayoung the cutest girl
in the world is here★) Oh wow, why is my makeup
all smudged? My eyes are messy I never really want to eat those cheese balls (Boxes full of snacks in a corner)
That one is a bit salty Hayoung will eat them right away
when she gets seated Hayoung, help yourself Let's share! Please stop eating, Jiwon! I need to eat chicken later! (Happy)
Let's order it then - Order it for real?
- Cheetos Crazy, crazy! This is crazy!! - Are you making the order?
- Yes! It's Aladdin's treasure house Wow~~ do things come out
if you rub it like this? It's a place where you keep
getting gifts from the genie I refilled it today! We did bulk purchasing What's bulk purchasing? Bulk purchasing! Bulk purchasing is bulk purchasing No~ What do you call
buying a huge quantity together? Retail, wholesale Wholesale!! Not retail, wholesale
(The Korean pronunciation of 'retail' is the same as 'sleeve') (…..) - She buys so many things
- I buy so much! (admits it herself) She doesn't buy just one month's worth I'd buy 6 cookies There are about 20 cookies in a box If we all share, they are
all gone in 2 days If I leave those cookies in the kitchen,
they are gone in 1 day So we can't put all of them
at the kitchen at once - I'd put them in the room first then put them outside
- Right, she knows the right timing I care mostly for our room! I can't take care of all 9 of us I am not capable of that! I am not capable!! (Emphasis) What should we do?
We need to finish it off already! Can you come and help us eat them? I can't eat it because I'm on diet What do we do? - But let's start dieting tomorrow!
- It's an excuse Okay~ We have more snacks
in our snack storage, guys! Help yourselves~ (Genie Jiwon) Should I fix my makeup? Turn on BGM fixing makeup~ (OK, turning it on) Temple Stay! Seriously? I don't think I saw it today What? It was there in the living room Get ready with me! (???) (No one cares) Let's draw the eyebrows! Jiwon's Get Ready with Me! (Firmly) Can you see this? I don't want to do this with her Why not?~ Let's do it together~ It will be done when I can't hear anymore (Hahahaha) (My…ears)
Jiwon's Get Ready with Me! (Firmly) Oh did we order that? We did! You mean the chicken? It! (…???) It! (Stream of consciousness…★) - Ah!! The food is here, it's here, it's here!
- Really? Let me pay for you! (Being the nice older sister) Really? Thank you, Hayoung~ I can make this like an ASMR Tap tap tap! Tak tak tak!! Tap it loudly (Protecting Jiwon…Protecting Jiwon…) She's tapping too hard (Tap tap tap (Sassy)) (Having fun) (Soulless)
Let me first tie my hair! (Sassy) (Saw the look on Chaeyoung's place) Chaeyoung, what's wrong? (Chicken finally arrived)
Wow yes! Wait, don't bring it in!! (Turning around right away) No, no (Save me) We were not very hyper today So not hyper! We were worried the whole time! We were worried that
we were so calm today I'm still so calm right now Oh? Yeah, you are so calm I'm so calm right now too! I was okay because I had chicken I'm still too calm so I'm worried (They were calm today…?) Right, why? (Sad all of a sudden) Jiwon is not that hyper either to be honest! I got better just now! Right, she got okay just now
but honestly though It's because I was hungry - I got better after eating
- Because of chicken She got better after eating a properly meal! She did eat before but didn't eat that much It's so funny - She was eating bits at a time
- Right, right So that must be why she wasn't as happy (The time when chicken came,
Jiheon was working on her homework) (Jisun is about to light a candle) (Getting ready to spend time alone) (???) (Seoyeon came back after the movie)
I thought it was over but there were 30 minutes left (Getting ready to spend time alone) (Seoyeon isn't satisfied with something) (Putting things back in place) Sorry, ah Sorry~ (Seoyeon feels bad that her baby got hurt)
Why did I try to switch seats like that? (Saerom is back on the 2nd floor)
What? Where is it? Did you
give it to Hayoung? (2nd floor roommates
are back in their room) (Jisun is getting the fruits
to share with everyone) (The 2nd floor roommates got together to talk)
1, 2, 3! The next day came and
the filming session started! Jisun! How long have you
been living in this room? Has it been over 1 year? Already? (Surprised) (It's been already 1 year
since she moved in) Why does it feel like
it's been so long? I like how it feels on the 2nd floor! I'm so thankful we are similar (Jiwon came for a short visit on the 2nd floor)
Jiwon came sometime before like yesterday and said she liked how it feels here - Jiyoung did?
- Jiwon! Oh Jiwon, Jiwon (Hayoung came for a short visit)
Hayoung came as if she was here for a walk She said I'm leaving~ She said this room feels bright But that room is so dark Doesn't it feel like
we're at a sauna? (Nagyung looks warm)
You look like you are at the sauna With a towel on the shoulder Trying to lose weight and
control moisture like this Huh?! Who switched it?
Wasn't it this one before? (Saerom noticed that the candle changed)
It changes everyday Right Some people are remembered
by the scent they have - You do remember people by their smell
- Right (Moving, moving) 4 o'clock or 5 o'clock? Ah! (Glaring) Why? Why did you get so sensitive? (Move away) She was just sitting still before Do you remember this sticker picture? (Trying to recall by looking at sticker pictures)
Oh I have that in my wallet Me too Sticker that Seoyeon gave me~ Where is Hayoung? Where is Hayoung? (The chicken they've been waiting for is here!)
Wow! Awesome! (Saerom came back down from the 1st floor)
Bring chopsticks if you want some~ (Feeling proud) (2 people got respectful in front of chicken(?)~
The other person is out of her mind(?)) (Jiwon eats away the chicken
with Saerom's help) (Saerom helps her with her bang(?)) Jiwon you got something on your chin You got it all over your mouth! Can I see you eat? - I never had this before!
- Is it spicy? Do you want some? I'm full! I just had a fish cake stick! (Encouraging every member who comes to eat)
A fish cake stick? (Like a subscriber watching an eating show in person)
Wow! Wow! It smells so good it's making me go crazy (I must resist...) Wow so good! (Out of her mind) I ordered bbu*kle You ordered bbu*kle
in addition to this? One more chicken?? (Surprised) Awesome (Respect) I thought we would share - Why are you here if you aren't eating? It's painful!
- Why not?! (Nom nom)
It's vicarious satisfaction (Out of her mind) Really? I can never do that! She has good self control! - Right, but when she eats
- She does eat a lot! she can eat a lot She did eat a lot today, I don't know why She doesn't eat when she has to hold back
but she eats a lot when she's allowed to! (Embarrassed) What?! I heard thunderstorm
from my stomach (Awkward) (Hahahaha) It's because we are talking about chicken - Chaeyoung didn't eat much today!
- Right (One more chicken arrived) Hayoung! Eat one cheese balls for Mel! (This subscriber is watching an eating show)
Right now? No? It's not the time to eat it? That time will come soon It will come soon? When the time comes,
make it look yummy for me! I hope the cheese doesn't get cold(Sad) That would make me so sad Oh?! It stretches?! Hayoung!! Crazy! (Pro eating show host eating the cheese ball)
Wow~~ What cheese is it? Cream cheese? Mozzarella? (The subscriber feeling vicariously satisfied) (Bbu*kle finally arrived)
Tada! (Those born in 1997
came to see the chicken) I got this coupon for my birthday! This is a lot of food You can have some if you are hungry! Me? - I don't want chicken!
- Really? The cheese ball is so good (Hayoung is impressed by the cheese ball)
This one? - What's this?
- Here is sausages and rice cakes I'm feeling dizzy now (The subscriber is leaving
since she can't handle it anymore) Hayoung! Why did they give us so much? I didn't get to eat anything yet! (Jiwon keeps telling people to join her)
Nagyung~ Come if you are hungry~ What did you eat (today)? This is the left over kimchi fried rice! She looks whiter than usual! (Nagyung guesses correctly
what Jiwon did) How did you know? Let me do Get Ready with Me! (Staring hard) Make it looks really good (Granting the request
by the new subscriber) Hi guys! It's me! (The subscriber loves this eating show(?)) (Once more, encouraged by the support)
Hi guys! It's me! I love it! For today's eating show, I'll be
eating fried bbu*kle chicken skin Let me dip it in the bbu* bbu* sauce~ (Nom) (Nom nom) Wait, don't eat like that (Disappointed) Too big Have some! - Did you buy it?
- Have some~ I told her to eat but she won't eat it I don't want it right now! (Nagyung is getting people for the party haha)
There are only 2 people at the party What's this? Did you drop it? It's what's left over! Is it spicy? This one was this big I can't eat the whole thing But for me! Since I'm a rising eating show YouTuber,
I'll try to eat it all~ So funny (Nom nom) (Hahahaha) She confronted reality I want to do a skit too! Today's theme, talking casually! Girlfriend theme! (Aw~Aw~♥) (Acting cute with her whole body) (Second confrontation with reality hahaha) You'll be struck by reality even more
if you watch it on a bigger screen (Oops) (Nagyung finally picked up the chopsticks)
Is it spicy? Do you want me to eat more bbu*kle?
Sigh~ Fine! (Sassy) I'll eat it for you! (Sassy) You want me to eat a leg? I don't really like it,
but I'll eat it for you! (Sassy) So full! (Jiwon confronts reality
as she does the eating show) I broke the chopsticks because of you Why is that my fault? This leg is as big as my face? I think the leg is bigger than my leg (Watching) Jiwon's gone~She's back~ (Hahahaha) Like you are eating a sweet potato (Ho~Ho~) You have do this! (So hot!!) (Hahaha)
It's like juggling Doesn't this remind you
of a bubble kiss? I think you are foaming at the mouth You can't let him know
(that you got something on your mouth)! (Excited) Why do you keep staring at me?
Do I have something on my face? ((Cracking up) Hahahaha) (It's another happy day at fromis_9's place!)
Why are you looking at me? Nothing really - Nothing really? Didn't write anything?
- I don't really have anything to say I don't really have anything!
She's good with the roller I wrote that because I didn't really
have anything else to say (You said you didn't have much to say,
but you wrote very specific things…?) No, I didn't! But I think we need it?! We need those things It's nice! Having time like this together! I don't need her to change anything I like her characteristics I was thinking hard Characteristics make me
sound like I'm an animal (Embarrassed)
Gyuri's characteristics No~ So (back to the topic) I was thinking! I got reminded of one thing - Your box, the one you removed yesterday
- Oh right, right You know that you always put
that box in front of my closet, right?! You do, right? I didn't talk about it
because it didn't bother me But I wrote that I hoped that she removes it But she removed it yesterday Do you know what's funny though? Did you know there was a lot
of your stuff in the box? (A surprise) There was lot in it that was mine I thought it was my box, but
there was a lot of your stuff in it! I thought it was Gyuri's box
but as I was emptying it I found a lot of my clothes in it I found the clothes I lost! (Shameless) (Unbelievable) (Gyuri, do you remember
what you said to Jiheon?) What? What? (Nervous) What did I write? I can't remember Please show more care to me But Jiheon really doesn't say anything
other than what I ask her Gyuri! Still I talk to you the most (Bold) - Of all the members!!
- No, you don't!! - Of all the members!
- So not true! When I'm at the dorm,
I talk with you the most! You do? Of all 9 members? That's obvious, we are roommates,
so that's obvious! - Hey, I'm here (Disappointed)
- It may not be true - Seriously!
- I'm here (Jiwon) It's obvious! (Filming it nonetheless) Should we play the video?!
To check how much you talked to me? Even in the video, you'll see that I talked
to you the most! (Confident) What about me?! When I talk to you a lot, I talk a lot,
but when I don't, I don't say anything You are really fun in the beginning But after a while, you make me feel tired I got it (Sad) I'll try to restrain myself What if we get hurt?! Oh my goodness! I can't hear this (???)
You can tell it to me later! (Confused) (Hahaha) Why are you looking at me?
Did you write it to me? (!?!?) You wrote it to me?! I wrote things for both of you! What did you write to me?! I want to see it! Wait, no! She must have said something mean (Curious) Okay, that should be okay Ah!! I don't know (Chaeyoung, don't eat food on bed♥)
(The trash drops down to my bed♥) (Hahahaha) I admit it, sorry (A quick apology) (So funny) Sorry (She thinks what she wrote is so funny) - I'm sure people on bunk bed can relate~
- Right! I keep dropping things without intending do do so I'm sorry (Awkward) It's fine! (Cool) There are things that she drops a lot! - Are they jellies?
- Jelly wrappers! I love jellies But I'm glad she doesn't drop
the jellies themselves (Optimistic) It's because they are all inside here! - They all went in here
- I mean (She can't talk because of laughing)
They are all piled up and organized inside - And just the trash
- Oh just the trash? Chaeyoung, please drop an uneaten one
once in a while! (Hayoung like King Solomon) Like this? Going into the mouth! Pretending to sleep and go~ (Hayoung, don't be mad
I threw our couple pj's out♥) (Hahahaha) You threw it out? (Nodding)
Why? I never wear it - Hayoung, it was too small for me!
- No, it's not! It keeps getting smaller on me! You must be getting taller! Your growth plate must be open! It's a sleeveless shirt with shorts You must be getting taller! Didn't you say you think
your nose is getting longer?! Eye bones here! She asked me, "Chaeyoung,
could your eye bones still grow?" So asked "Why?" and she said, "I think my eye bones
are growing" I said I don't think that happens
but I guess that could happen and she said, "I'm 23 but
I guess it could happen!" "I'm still growing! My growth palate
must be still open!" (Sad)
For me! What's that? The chair for the vanity Every one keeps bringing
the chair to their beds! Okay! Got it, right?!! It's be cool and move on! (What's a good thing about my roommates?!) I can't hear this! (Overreacting) (Mine is yours and yours is mine) (But! Okay, be quiet♥) I even wrote a heart! Have you never thought
you were the loudest? (Shameless) Wow~ Do you admit
she was being dishonest? - Jiwon (Agrees)
- Blah blah blah~ Am I that loud? (…..) Look at Gyuri's face (Hahahaha) Gyuri went like this (Recreating the scene) - What?
- Really? (She isn't sure) - Jiwon, you need to get yourself together!
- Get yourself together~ Haven't heard that in a while (A word to your roommate)
You go ahead 2020...How old are you now? I really can't remember We are so nice to each other, right? (Tears) (Calculating her age) Say something nice already?! Don't talk about what you did to me! - Say something nice!
- I was boasting about myself (Too embarrassed, she keeps turning
her body around to the back) In 2020, I hope you stay happy
and work out a lot and become a body builder~ Take a picture of your body and
show it to our flover~ What grandparents say to you on New Year's Day count
as compliments to me?! It's a bit strange for me to compliment you - Aw?? (Can't understand that)
- Okay, that can happen! This is why I said
she should care about me more! Don't you get it now, Jiheon?! I care the most about you! Keep growing and be healthy! (Hahahaha) That made it sound like
I'm a cabbage or radish (Hahahaha) For me, in 2020, I hope you go out and hang out
with your friends at least once in 2 weeks! (Tears) Just ask us to hang out with you! What's going on right now? They need a bgm They need a sad bgm (This is the last question,
it's obvious but still…) Don't ask it then! (Hahahaha) Her personality~!! Her personality! Jo In-sung! (Hahahaha) So when will you ask the next question? What's the obvious question? Is it like say something
to your roommate? (!?) Ah~ Okay be quiet~ Say something? I say something to Jiwon? Let's thank each other
about what they are borrowing Sounds good! That's nice! Jiwon!! Thank you for the skin care product! Thank you~ Okay~ Okay okay! Chaeyoung~~ Let me think~ (Sassy) I used your blush today~ Thank you so much~~ Also! I love how we can
share each other's clothes! Yay! So annoying Your turn now It's embarrassing,
so I won't hear it (Huh?) I'm talking to Hayoung ((Awkward) Hahahaha) Seriously She is not happy I really made a mistake Ha~~ young~~~~ (………) - What did I (borrow from her?)
- Do you use anything that's mine? Ah! The straightener! (!!!!!) I was using the most important item
every single day! (Eureka) Hayoung~~ For finishing up, I use your straightener and
hair essence for perfect hair Thank you so much for letting me
use theme everyday! Also, I used your shampoo yesterday!
I didn't tell you! (Confession) Thank you! Also, Jiwon's hair dryer which
I use everyday to dry my hair Thank you~~ Also, I don't know who used my shampoo but It's so annoying!! (Hahahaha) Who was it~ I tried to test if someone else was using it so I turned the lid to the front,
and it was turned the other way Who are you~ Anyway, my roommates, thank you~ - Love you~
- Do this! Love you~ Our roommate's thumbnail! Thank you in advance
for the rest of my life Let's live happily together! Let's be happy! Wrap it up! Good luck, fromis_9! Wow~ Not fun! Let's pose for the thumbnail! Looks cozy Ah so warm~ Ah so happy~ This guy is so chubby~ What's wrong with them~ - I'll snap the clapperboard
- What? Is it over? 1, 2, 3! Second slate! (Let's go, let's go) Okay, 1, 2, 3! Thank you for the hard work~ (Can't get up hahaha) Thank you for the hard work! Good job! Ouch!! (Bang) Let's go!!!! (Channel_9 In the HOUSE) 