Catch-and-release fishing is supposed to be
the best of both worlds: The anglers get the joy of a
day spent on the water, and the fish gets to live another
day. But sometimes, a hook will damage a fish’s
gills or esophagus and cause severe or even fatal bleeding. For years, catch-and-release anglers have
claimed that there’s a straightforward solution to this: Just pour
some soda on the fish to stop the bleeding and save its
life. The idea was that the carbon dioxide in sodas
constricted the blood vessels in the gills, thus stopping
the bleeding. But some biologists thought the idea sounded
a little bit fishy. In a 2020 study, they decided to test this
claim and figure things out for real. In their study, the researchers got to do
what I’m sure they spent all of grad school dreaming about: They poured soda on bleeding fish. They tested Coca-Cola, Mountain Dew, and carbonated
lake water and compared that to no treatment. Alas, none of the drinks reduced the duration or intensity of bleeding. Technically, this study is a preprint, so
it hasn’t gone through the peer-review process yet, and corrections
could turn up. But at this point, it does seem to effectively
debunk this idea. That said! In this process, the researchers did find
clues about why so many people think this strategy
works. They noticed that while bleeding wasn’t
reduced overall, it would slow down for about 30 seconds. Which might be as much time as an angler spends with their catch. Researchers think this happens because the
carbon dioxide in the drinks causes bradycardia, or a very
slow heart rate. And if the heart slows down, blood is pumping
more slowly through a fish’s body, so it won’t bleed
as much. At least, until its heart rate goes back up
again. Now, heart rate wasn’t specifically looked
at in this study, but several previous papers have shown that
when fish were briefly exposed to water with high CO2
levels, they had a substantial drop in heart rate. So there is support for this idea. Researchers think this drop is triggered by
sensitive chemical receptors in the fish’s gills. That’s based on things like how, when you
sever the nerve that allows the gills to communicate with
the rest of the body, fish no longer have this response to elevated
CO2. But even though the how is clear, the why
is another story. Despite decades of research, scientists still
haven’t conclusively demonstrated why this happens. One idea is that high carbon dioxide levels
in water generally happen at the same time as low oxygen
levels. And since the heart needs lots of oxygen to
work, the bradycardia may help protect the heart
muscle when there isn’t as much oxygen available. Sadly, though, this still means there’s
no good evidence that pouring carbonated drinks on fish does
them any good. So if you’ve got a bleeding fish on your
line, it’s just going to be a rough day for that
fish. But I guess you can console yourself with
a nice, cold soda. 