Vincent D’Onofrio: “He had–he had one actor do 
two days worth of takes, and on a megaphone,   would say, ‘Um, it’s take, uh...seventy-two. 
Um, that’s just no fucking good.   Let’s go to take seventy-three.’ You know.” Kevin Pollak: “And no attempt to be funny, let’s 
be clear, as funny as it is to hear it now.” Vincent D’Onofrio: “No attempt to be funny.” Kevin Pollak: “No one was laughing on that set.” Vincent D’Onofrio: “So you had to come up with the 
goods, or you were not going to have a good time.”  We’ve heard similar stories about Kubrick’s 
methods before–George C. Scott was tricked into   overacting in Dr. Strangelove by saying that those 
were rehearsal takes that wouldn’t be in the final   film, the Ludovico Treatment scenes in A Clockwork 
Orange left Malcolm McDowell with scratched   corneas, Shelley Duvall had a nervous breakdown 
on the set of The Shining, and Tom Cruise   suffered an ulcer during the 46-week-straight 
production of Eyes Wide Shut (Den of Geek).  At one point in the Full Metal Jacket production, 
Matthew Modine’s pregnant wife went into early   labor and needed an emergency C-Section. Kubrick 
didn’t think Modine should go to the hospital with   his wife and, instead, continue working because 
they would have nothing to shoot after lunch   and the doctors wouldn’t need 
him there anyway (FMJ Diary).  Modine threatened to cut his hand and 
force them to stop filming, if Kubrick   didn’t agree to him leaving (FMJ Diary).
Hearing this, I can’t help but think of   that moment in Platoon when a soldier comes 
out of an intense battle unscathed and stabs   himself in the leg before he is found 
so that he can get on the injured list.  In many of these cases, you could 
argue that the end justified the means.   After all, Kubrick had two reputations–having 
unorthodox methods and making some of the   greatest movies in the history of cinema. Shelley Duval: “And I resented him for it.   I thought, ‘Why do you want to do this to 
me, how can you do this to me?’ You know you   agonize over it, and it’s just the necessary 
turmoil to get out of it what you want out of   it. I mean we had the same end in mind, it was 
just that sometimes we differed in our means.   And by the end, the means met.” And from the various casting anecdotes   and actor interviews involving Kubrick’s 
productions, it seemed that actors from   all over were jumping at the chance to work 
with Kubrick despite these infamous stories.  During the promotion of Full Metal Jacket, Dorrian 
Harewood who played Eightball in the movie,   complimented Kubrick’s methods, calling him a 
“perfectionist” (FMJ Making). Kubrick heard about   this and immediately called Harewood to tell 
him, “I’m not a perfectionist!” (FMJ Making).  Kubrick addressed the label of “perfectionist” 
in an interview with Michel Ciment. He said,   “[Perfectionism is] a convenient journalistic 
slant used to get at me. If you try to do   something, you try to do it as well as possible. 
I don't waste money and l don't waste time,   but I try to get it right. My films don't cost a 
lot and they have all been successful. No company   has ever been hurt by any of them, and some of 
them have made a lot of money” (Ciment, 247).  Nevertheless, Kubrick’s reputation for having 
actors do take after take after take has endured.   So let’s look at why Kubrick used this method 
specifically from the lens of Full Metal Jacket.  This is why Kubrick did so many 
takes in Full Metal Jacket.  I gotta get back in the shit. I ain’t 
heard a shot fired in anger in weeks.  When thinking of the amount of takes Kubrick 
would do, most think of something in the range   of a hundred like the infamous story of it taking 
127 takes to shoot this scene in The Shining. But in actuality, aside from some specific shots 
or problems, Kubrick usually wouldn’t go much   further than 30 takes, but it really depended 
on the actor (FMJ Making). Perhaps the main   reason for this many takes, was that some actors 
didn’t know their lines the way Kubrick wanted.   In an interview, Kubrick said, “You cannot act 
without knowing dialogue. If actors have to think   about the words, they can’t work on the emotion. 
So you end up doing thirty takes of something.   And still you can see the concentration in 
their eyes; they don’t know their lines. So   you just shoot it and shoot it and hope you can 
get something out of it in pieces” (Cahill ’87). We did twenty takes and that was the best one. Lee Ermey was an actor who really knew his 
lines, after all, he had lived the part and   dialogue as a real Gunnery Sergeant during 
the Vietnam War and he spent all of his spare   time working with his dialogue coach on the 
movie (Cahill ’87). Kubrick said that Ermey   “averaged eight or nine” takes and sometimes 
got it in three (Cahill ’87). Kubrick also   suspected that some actors embellished their 
thirty takes to a hundred takes in interviews,   adding to his reputation as 
a perfectionist (Cahill ’87). Co-screenwriter Michael Herr said that some of 
the younger, less experienced actors [quote]   “had only the most rudimentary sense of what 
Stanley actually meant by ‘knowing your lines’;   by which he meant that you had to know them so 
completely that there were no other possible   lines anywhere in your head” (Herr, Vanity 
Fair). He goes on to say, “They were a jolly   enthusiastic crew, some very talented, some not, 
all thrilled to be in a Stanley Kubrick movie—   I think they all saw blue skies and high times 
ahead—but there was a plateau of discipline that   they couldn’t have known existed before. Stanley 
showed them, and it hurt.” (Herr, Vanity Fair). Matthew Modine: “And he 
loved British actors because   oftentimes American actors work on the 
characterization, the history, and the last   thing that American actors are usually taught in 
school is to go to the lines. And British actors,   I think, on the other hand, use the lines to lead 
them to the same place that Americans arrive,   you know, but in a different direction. 
Start with the lines and find the character,   instead of finding the character and then 
go to the lines.” (Pinewood Dialogue) Kubrick once told Modine about when 
he was a relatively new director   directing “some of England’s greatest actors”–he 
heard them whispering to each other and they would   stop when he got close (FMJ Diary). He thought 
that they were criticising him, but when he   managed to eavesdrop, he found that they were just 
rehearsing their lines over and over (FMJ Diary). So, with some of the actors not knowing 
their lines in the way that Kubrick wanted,   it would take longer to shoot the scenes. Especially for his later movies, Kubrick allocated 
an extensive number of shooting days for filming   in the budget so that he could take the required 
amount of time to get the quality of story,   camerawork, and performances where he wanted them.
In an interview, Kevyn Major Howard noted that he   was on the production for “seventeen months,” 
which was four months longer than an actual   Marine’s tour of duty in Vietnam (FMJ Making).
At one point, the union actors called a meeting   because the production was not honoring its union 
requirements–Kubrick had kept them “working long   past overtime” (Den of Geek). Matthew Modine wrote 
in his Full Metal Jacket Diary that he was so   excited to be working for Kubrick that he didn’t 
consider that the other actors weren’t getting   the perks that he got as a star (FMJ Diary). This 
isn’t to say that Modine escaped the long hours.   He was working longer than anyone and in fact, one 
week, he agreed to come in to rehearse on his only   day off so that the Vietnamese extras didn’t have 
to lay in the cold dirt for too long (FMJ Diary). Full Metal Jacket editor Martin Hunter said, 
“two things would absolutely enrage [Kubrick]:   one was laziness – not laziness as most 
people would think of it but someone who   only wanted to work 18 [hours] instead of 
20 hours that day could arouse his wrath– Aaaah! –and the other thing was 
deception” (Martin Hunter). Cinematographer Douglas Milsome said, “I’ve 
actually had a lot harder time working for   a lot less talented people than Stanley. He’s 
a drain because he saps you dry, but he works   damn hard himself and expects everybody else 
to” (AC 76). Kubrick put an extreme effort   into making sure that every dollar wound up on the 
screen. If you did anything that would mess with   his movie or his ability to enjoy the amount of 
time he needed to get his movie right, he would   kill you. He did this on Full Metal Jacket. 
Dorian Harewood, who played Eightball, tried   to renegotiate his fee when they were extending 
the actor contracts and Kubrick had him killed…   uh, his character, I mean (FMJ Diary). This is a crazy story, which we’ll 
talk about in another episode. Another reason shooting took so long was 
because of the relationship Kubrick wanted   the actors to have with their characters. And 
this meant that the casting had to be perfect.  In the early 1980s, Hollywood was buzzing with the 
news that Stanley Kubrick was making a Vietnam War   movie and everyone wanted to be a part of it (FMJ 
Making). Kubrick put out an ad in the paper saying   that he was willing to look at anyone’s audition 
tape. It seemed that every actor in America and   England was sending in an audition (FMJ Making).
Kubrick told co-screenwriter Michael Herr,   “Some of them are interesting. Most of 
them are terrible. Oh well, I suppose I   can always wipe the tapes and use them to 
record football on…” (Herr, Vanity Fair).  Brian Atene: “Since I–I’m paying a great deal to 
say whatever I like to Stanley Kubrick, one of the   greatest directors of all time–although not quite 
as good as MIchael Curtiz, the director of The   Seahawk–Stanley, why aren’t you directing 2010?!” Sports announcer: “Underneath!”  According to Herr, Kubrick went on to say, 
“I only want people working on this one   that no one else will hire or, if they hired 
them, would never dream of hiring them again” (Herr, Vanity Fair).   Herr claimed that this 
was standard Kubrick hyperbole because he   always had to have the best of the best. Side 
note–Kubrick told Herr that he thought that The   Godfather had the best cast and was possibly 
the best movie ever made (Herr, Vanity Fair). Jay Cocks: “The casting is 
extraordinary here. The actors really   inhabit what they’re doing. They 
make their roles themselves,   not the opposite way around. (Commentary)
Kubrick is often known for his thematic ambiguity,   but his ambiguity also seemed to extend 
to the way he directed his actors.   He would have the actors figure things out 
for themselves, breaking with the assumption   people have about him being a dictator. 
Instead, he would take on the role of the   audience and [quote/unquote] “taste machine.”
Stanley Kubrick: “They should only do it when   they say, ‘This is my gun.’ And then let go 
again, ‘this is for fighting, this is for fun.’”  He wouldn’t talk about the story or specifics or 
use metaphors in his direction (Commentary).   After all, everyone had read the script and he had 
worked very hard in the casting process to make   sure he found the right person to not only 
perform their role but to build their role.   Kubrick didn’t know how to act and he 
would step aside to let the performer who   is thinking only about acting do their job and 
he would be there as the eyes of the audience.  Vincent D’Onofrio: “He would just say, ‘I need 
this, I need it to be better, I need it to be   faster, this is not working, you guys have to 
make this work, that’s what you’re here for,   make it work.’ Every once in a while he’d 
almost–it would almost sound like a complaint,   where he would say something like, ‘Well you 
just don’t understand the scene, the scene is   not about that at all.’ And, you know, it would 
just make us think, like, ‘Well, if it’s not   about that, then what is it about?’ And then 
eventually, luckily, we would figure it out. But   he very rarely said anything, only a couple 
times, where he gave you hints– strong hints–but, you know.” (Commentary)
This meant taking the necessary   amount of time and takes to allow the actors 
to develop their performance into something   that Kubrick found interesting. Malcolm McDowell, 
who played Alex in A Clockwork Orange, said that   he once asked Kubrick about his character and 
Kubrick basically told him, “I’m not an acting   coach” (ACO Commentary). It was important to 
Kubrick that the actors bring in their own ideas   and use their craft to make the performance 
work–they had to figure it out for themselves.  Kubrick wouldn’t let any of the actors 
lean on him for how things should be done.   And this goes for leaning on others as well. 
Michael Herr spoke about visiting the set, saying,   “When I went to the set, [the actors would] come 
over to me between takes, search my face for a   clue, confused and half-mutinous, and then Stanley 
would walk by and say something like ‘Don’t talk   to my actors, Michael’” (Herr, Vanity Fair).
Jay Cocks: “Stanley wasn’t afraid to follow   characters anywhere, but he would never draw any 
conclusions about their behavior.” (Commentary)  Part of why Kubrick was able to spend so 
much time getting the performances right   was that he used much smaller crews than 
you’d find on a typical movie production. Kubrick often worked with relatively small 
crews so that he could shoot fast and fluidly   and everyone on the set was allowed 
to give ideas (Commentary).   They could try things out on the fly as needed.
Kubrick would give the cast the opportunity to   bring their own personalities to their characters. 
He had all of the Marines, besides Joker,   come up with what would be drawn and written on 
their character’s helmets (Commentary). Joker had   to have “born to kill” for the story, but everyone 
else was able to write and draw what they wanted. Adam Baldwin thought it would “be cool” to write 
“I am become death” from the Bhagavad Gita,   which had been quoted by J. Robert Oppenheimer 
after the first atomic bomb test (Commentary). Kubrick expected every actor he cast to 
bring their own creativity to their roles,   but he decided what worked and 
what didn’t. Kubrick famously said,   “I don’t always know what I want, 
but I do know what I don’t want.” Kevin Major Howard: “He doesn’t want to 
explain to an actor what he’s looking for.   He’s already cast you.” Vincent D’Onofrio: “And anything you bring is good 
enough for him, if it tells the story properly.   If it doesn’t, he’ll say, ‘Do it better. Do 
it more interesting.’ He does use those terms.   Doesn’t say how to do it, what to do. ‘You fucked 
up, do it again.’ He’ll say it right to you,   right in front of everybody, 
no problem.” (FMJ Making) In an interview with Francis Clines, Kubrick 
said, “I've found over the long period of time   which it takes to make a movie that your own sense 
of whether you think it's good or bad or how happy   you are at a particular time is very unimportant, 
that the ideas just come and sometimes they seem   to come out of some place that's got nothing 
to do with how you feel” (Clines 175). Douglas Milsome summed up this concept saying, 
“Stanley always has done many, many takes...but   in fact, the many takes are not just repetitions 
of the same thing, they are often building upon   a theme or idea that can mature and develop 
into something quite extraordinary. The whole   structure of the scene can actually change during 
the operation of filming it. Also, Stanley gets a   lot more out of his actors after he works with 
them a lot longer. It's especially valuable   in bringing out something in actors who may not be 
exactly up to the part, but Stanley works on them   jolly hard until they produce the goods. That's 
why he's so good with actors: in the end, he'll   rehearse and rehearse them until they're word 
perfect, and when they've got the words perfect   then the rest has to happen - they then have to 
act. The large number of takes are used mainly to   get something out of the actors that they're 
not willing to provide right away” (AC 77).  When it came time for the marines to do the 
Hué City interviews–a sequence Kubrick came up with– Kubrick asked Modine to look for some good 
lines to incorporate in The Short-Timers–the   book the movie was based on (FMJ 
Diary). That’s where Modine found…  I wanted to see exotic Vietnam, 
the jewel of Southeast Asia.  I wanted to be the first kid on 
my block to get a confirmed kill.  According to Vincent D’Onofrio, Arliss Howard came 
up with all his lines in this scene (Commentary).  They don’t have one horse in Vietnam. 
There’s something basically wrong with that.  Co-screenwriter Michael Herr, had been a combat 
correspondent during the Vietnam War. He said,   “The characters [in Full Metal Jacket] 
were a lot like the ones I knew in Vietnam,   they were the real thing. They're a lot 
truer than the characters in Platoon.   In Platoon they keep spouting ‘Vietnamisms', the 
kinds of things Davy Crockett might have said,   a pioneer language. In my opinion Stanley 
succeeded completely in condensing the book   into its essential elements'' (Ciment, 251).
The scene in which we first meet Animal Mother   unfolds differently in the script than what 
we see in the final film. Originally, Joker   points his rifle at Animal Mother’s neck and says, 
“Look, man, I got twice as many hours in country   as you, and if you don’t get out of my face, I’ll 
fucking blow your brains out” (Pinewood Dialogue). In his Full Metal Jacket diary, Matthew Modine 
wrote that the scene wasn’t really working in the   rehearsal stage and Kubrick asked to meet with him 
in his trailer (FMJ Diary). Kubrick asked Modine   if he ever met anyone like Animal Mother and 
Modine said “Lots of them” (FMJ Diary). Kubrick   asked what he would do if someone like Animal 
Mother came up to him and got in his face   and Modine replied, “I’d make a joke” 
going on to say that tough guys like   that are “just a lot of talk” and a joke 
would “diffuse the situation” (FMJ Diary). Matthew Modine: “He goes, ‘Oh, that’s 
interesting. Did you read any jokes in the book   that we might be able to use in this?’ And 
I said, ‘Oh yeah.’ And so we––Stanley and I ––were drinking that really strong African 
coffee, flipping through Gus Hasford’s book,   and trying to find something. I said, ‘You 
know what’d be really great is if I could   use one of those John Wayne things.’ And we 
found that one in the thing.” (Pinewood Dialogue) Well Pilgrim, only after you 
eat the peanuts out of my shit. Matthew Modine: “And so we––that was one of those 
times when we massaged the script into something   else that suited––where Stanely was really good 
with actors and feeling the freedom to say, ‘Ok,   look, this is stupid, it’s not working’—without 
saying ‘stupid,’ though—‘This isn’t working,   let’s change it. Let’s make it something 
that fits, fits me.’” (Pinewood Dialogue) The idea here, as Modine writes, is that this is a 
typical confrontation between two “punk ass kids,”   but the difference is that they have guns and 
Animal Mother has killed many times (FMJ Diary). Now, I’ve always found the acting in this scene 
weirdly fascinating. The lines and delivery are   so bizarre, like nothing you’d expect from a 
serious movie. Modine said, “There’s something   really weird about the performances, I think, 
in the film. There’s something—but I think that   that’s part of what Stanley was trying to do. 
There’s a line in the film, “The phony tough   and the crazy brave.” And I think that that 
could sort of be what you could say about the   performances in the film: there’s kind of this 
phony tough and crazy brave” (Pinewood Dialogue). And it was so interesting to find out that this 
was a scene that was very difficult to get right.   Remember when Vincent D’Onofrio mentioned that 
Kubrick took two days to work with one actor on   one scene? (Pollack Interview). I believe that it 
was this scene with Adam Baldwin as Animal Mother.   They shot the Vietnam half of the 
movie first, while D’Onofrio watched. The story goes that Kubrick had Baldwin 
do his lines over and over and over.   Take after take after take. Modine wrote 
in his diary that Kubrick wasn’t hearing   the lines like he imagined and Baldwin 
delivered the lines “a dozen different   ways” (FMJ Diary). Finally, in frustration, 
Baldwin muttered, “Oh man, what does he want?”   and everyone went silent and then Kubrick 
leaned over from behind his camera and said,   “How about some better acting?” (FMJ 
Making). And the cast and crew were like… [sounds of shock, laughter, and cheering] Vincent D’Onofrio: “And, you know, to be fair,  the scene wasn’t working. I was sitting 
right next to Stanley while it was going on,   and feeling bad for everybody, 
but the scene wasn’t working.  Kevin Pollak: “Right.”
Vincent D’Onofrio: “Yeah.”  It could be very frustrating doing take after take 
without any idea what Kubrick was looking for.   Kubrick would say things to Modine like, “Uh, 
Matthew, you’re not going to do it that way,   are you?” or “What was that? You did it different 
that time. Why?” (FMJ Diary). Kubrick didn’t want   the actors to [quote/unquote] “make choices” and 
do something different just for the sake of it.   When it would happen, he would tell Modine to do 
it again, but don’t do his “choice” (FMJ Diary).  During the production, Modine wrote in his 
diary, “It’s not that my choice was wrong,   it’s that he’s looking for something else. I have 
no idea what. And I don’t think he knows what.   It’s not a thing, it’s an intangible 
feeling, but I think that’s what it is—  having no idea what. Not thinking. That by repetition, 
I might find myself hypnotized into being,   not acting. That the whole process of acting is 
a journey toward being. Choices can’t be right   if you’re making them. Choices are conscious. 
Stanley’s actors have to act as unconsciously as   an eye blinks. As uncontrollable as a heartbeat. 
This takes time. When Stanley told me he did   a lot of takes because actors didn’t know their 
lines, he wasn’t talking about words” (FMJ Diary). Modine spoke to Vivian Kubrick 
after publishing his diary.   Vivian wondered if the only people 
who could really understand Kubrick   were other artists who have, [quote] “suffered to 
make themselves understood” (Pinewood Dialogue). When the production finally wrapped, Arliss 
Howard went over to say “goodbye” to Kubrick. Matthew Modine: “And he said, ‘Yeah, well, 
Stanley, I’ll see you later.’ And Stanley said,   ‘You know, you’re going to miss me.’ 
And Arliss said, ‘Yeah, yeah, yeah,   I am. I will. I’ll miss you.’ He goes, 
‘No, no, you’re going to really miss me,   when you’re working on a set and the director 
calls: Cut! We got it. Let’s move on. And you’re   going to know that you don’t have it, and that we 
shouldn’t move on. And you’re going to miss me,   because you know that I would never cut and say 
let’s move on unless I knew we had it. And you’re   going to miss me.’ And Arliss said the first time 
that he went to work on another film and the guy   said, ‘Cut, we got it, let’s move on,’ he said, 
‘I really miss Stanley.’” (Pinewood Dialogue) or join CinemaTyler on Patreon at the five dollar 
level and get extended access to Mubi as a perk. And head on over to Patreon where you’ll 
find a commentary track based on this video. Thanks for watching. 