In the first year of my physics degree, I had a birthday party and 30 people came. In the last year of my physics degree, I had a birthday party
and five people came. Now it's not like physics turned me into a mega bitch or anything like that, at least not that I know of. But as the years went on, I became more and more
serious about my studies. I stopped going out with
friends, meeting new people and I spent most Saturday nights alone in my room, integrating equations. The better my grades got, the more my social life suffered. This is just an example of one of life's, many trade-offs. But trade offs aren't just unique to us. They play a pretty big role in the way the world works. In this video, we're going to talk about the uncertainty principle and you'll see that whether we're talking about position, momentum, good grades or a social life, it all
follows the same logic. There are some things
you just can't improve without messing up something else. The most well-known
version of this is probably the Heisenberg uncertainty
principle from quantum mechanics. And while we will get to that today, the uncertainty principle
is a lot more general. Let's start with something simpler. Take this little old lady Mildred, now you've been watching her for a week and you notice that on Sunday,
she goes to the market. Now, can you conclude that every Sunday she goes to the market? Well, not really. You've only seen her do it once. Now, you watch it for another week and lo and behold, on Sunday
she goes to the market. So it's tempting to say
that she goes to the market with frequency once per week, but it's still not enough. You need more time to draw
an accurate conclusion. After a year of careful surveillance, you're pretty sure that she goes to the market
with frequency once per week. But, what if the next week
she goes to bingo instead? Or what if she needs more
cat food and goes twice? Really, you need an infinitely
long time to be 100% sure that Mildred frequencies
the market once per week. Obviously you don't have
an infinite amount of time. So the frequency of Mildred's market trips can never be known to 100% accuracy. There's this trade off between knowing the
frequency and spending time. This is a version of the
uncertainty principle and variables that have
this trade-off relationship are called conjugate variables. Another more well-known
pair of conjugate variables, are position and momentum. This is one version of the
Heisenberg uncertainty principle and it States that the
uncertainty and position, and the uncertainty and momentum, are always greater than or
equal to this constant here. Basically we can never
measure both the position and momentum of an
object to 100% accuracy. We'll come back to the equation in a bit but first, let's talk about the intuition. The way my quantum physics
professor introduced the uncertainty principle was, imagine you're trying to find
the location of a basketball, but the only way you can do that is by throwing tennis balls at it and measuring where they bounce back. If you manage to hit the basketball, sure you know where it was, but, now it's moved. Keep the imagery in
mind for this next bit. Heisenberg was a German physicist who loved classical music and was a pretty
accomplished piano player. Oh yeah, and he won the Nobel Prize for the creation of quantum physics. One day, he was performing
a thought experiment. He wanted to see if he could measure both the position and
velocity of an electron. To measure the velocity of something, you just need to measure
its position twice and divide by the time it
took between each measurement. So it seems silly that you could measure something once, but not twice, right? But the most direct way of
measuring where something is, is to shine light on it, and from the reflected light
calculate its position. We do this every day when we look at things. Photons hit the object and
reflect them back into our eyes, then our brain figures out where it is from the image produced on the retina. So Heisenberg imagined looking at an electron under a microscope, firing a photon edit and figuring out the position of the electron. But in order not to move the electron, he would need to hit it with
a photon of really low energy. Now quantum particles have a property called Wave-particle duality, where they behave as both
particles and as waves, so while they can be
thought of as particles, they also have a wavelength and frequency. Radio waves have the longest wave length 30 centimeters or more. And they're great for capturing
images of stars and planets, but they'd be hopeless at producing a good image of say your face. You would just get a blur. See you can't get better focusing power than the wavelengths that
are forming on the image. The 30 centimeter radio
waves can only make images of details at least 30 centimeters big. If you made the wavelength smaller, to about a millimeter, then you'd get a much better image. So if Heisenberg wanted
to get a clear image of an electron, say to within a micron, he'd need to decrease the wavelength of the photon to within
1000th of a millimeter. But, the energy of a photon is given by this equation where E is the energy and
the lambda is the wavelength. So you can see that as the
wavelength gets smaller, the energy gets bigger. If we decrease the wavelength allowing us to get an accurate
description of its position, the photon has to be of such high energy that it hits the electron
too hard and moves it. If we hit the electron with
a photon of low energy, and then hit it again, we can get an idea of the velocity, but the images will be
too fuzzy to measure it's positioned with decent accuracy. This is a conundrum. Position and momentum
are conjugate variables. You can't gain information about one, without losing information
about the other. Now let's come back to our equation. Hopefully now it makes more sense. These triangles mean uncertainty and this X means position, and this P means momentum. This H by on two is a
teeny, tiny little constant. Don't worry about the
exact value right now, the important thing is that
it's greater than zero. So the equation tells us that the uncertainty in position, and the uncertainty in momentum, is always greater than zero. Basically we have to have
some uncertainty somewhere. As we saw from Heisenberg's experiment. This had nothing to do with
the equipment he was using. Unless we find a way to
make wavelengths shorter without increasing energy, we're screwed. Now for those of you who need
a mathematical description to go with the intuition,
don't worry, it's coming. When Einstein concluded that
light behaved as particles, this French guy named De
Broglie made this outrageous, totally not founded on anything claim that all particles must
behave like waves too. And it was right. The wavelength of an electron is just Planck's constant
divided by its momentum. Therefore, the momentum of a wave, can be represented by a wavelength. So say we know the exact
momentum of an electron, we can represent it as a beautiful, infinitely long sine wave. But the position of the electron is also
described by this wave. The area under the curve,
represents the probability of it being there. And we can say that we have
basically no idea where it is, but waves have this cool property that when you add them together, they interfere and create a new wave. So say we presented with this wave that describes the electrons
position and momentum, now the electron is much more localized and we have a way better
idea of where it is. But this wave is made up of a sum of a lot of
different wavelengths. And remember that wavelength and momentum of practically
interchangeable. So then, we no longer have
just one momentum value, we have loads. So in gaining information
about the position of the electron we've lost information about its momentum. Position and momentum
are just two of loads of different conjugate variables. Heisenberg's mentor Niels Bohr, gave this relationship between conjugate variables a
proper name, complementarity. The data remaining is that there are some pairs of complimentary properties that just can't be measured or observed simultaneously. Trade-offs are built
into the laws of nature, the particles that make up
our universe and our lives. So next time you think
you can have your cake and eat it too, you probably can't. Thanks for watching guys. I hope this video helped you understand the uncertainty principle a bit better. This video is part of a
quantum physics series I've got going on at the moment which I've put for you
at the end of this video. Like, subscribe, all that all the stuff that YouTube is meant to say, and I will see you next time. Bye. (upbeat music) 