(Another happy day at fromis_9's place!)
(Focused on watching the TV) (Finishing up the kimchi fried rice
from last week) Ah! So annoying.. (Jiwon came back
to the room to get the cereal) - Did the food come?
- No Argh, I hate it Argh Is this Love Naggers? (Upon hearing the TV,
Nagyung comes downstairs) (fromis_9 members gather around the TV one by one)
I saw this one, I saw this episode We are Love Naggers family Is that how we normally
are at home..? We don't usually look like that at home Highest number of members
we had at home was about three,
you, me, and Chaeyoung It's been so long since our home
felt so chaotic like that I don't watch TV that much
in the afternoon Lately, since I couldn't go outside
because of social distancing, I got to watch some TV That's what you call a contradiction! It's a contradiction, right? But honestly, except for Jiheon,
most members don't watch TV - Right, honestly, no one really does
- Maybe.. Maybe Chaeyoung watches a little I'm glad I have you (In the mean time,
finished making kimchi fried rice) (Jisun is next) Ahhh Can't you just call? Can't you? Why would they do that? So annoying No, you aren't right about everything (Jiheon came with kimchi fried rice) (Jisun is cooking breakfast) (Hayoung finally got out of her bed) (Peeking, peeking)
What are you making? What's this? I'm marinating the chicken breast - Was it sleeping?
- Yeah, I was putting it to sleep (Found the camera) (Other members are catching her up on the show)
He did something special There was a note
saying "sorry" in a box (Jisun cleans up
right after cooking) (Jiheon, give me one bite) (Bbooing, bbooing) (The back of someone who got confused
by her friend's acting a cutie.mp4) - Jiheon, is it good?
- Yes Give me a bite! (Ah~) (Nom) (Nagyung's kimchi fried rice
arrived just in time) 20...20...20 minutes left Gentlemen, wait a little bit We have 2 vanities One's mine and the other's Chaeyoung's... This is Hayoung's I don't have a lot of belongings Hayoung uses my stuff
and Chaeyoung's stuff I used to ask their permission all the time,
but one day, she yelled at me She told me to just use it It got so annoying how
she asked all the time I use the ones she bought,
she uses the one I bought We just use whatever What Koreans believe in the most Like the red pen myth I used to believe
in a lot of superstitions (Talking about superstitions)
Things like red pens and thresholds Right, right I don't believe in superstitions I don't believe in anything,
but I feel iffy about the red pen one - What's the red pen? Writing your name in red?
- A dead person's name What other superstitions are there? Whistling at night - Calling forth a snake?
- Hey, no one whistles at night You know what I mean? I used to believe in so many superstitions But I don't remember what they were You don't still believe
in them, do you? You need to believe in yourself,
believe in yourself Don't believe in superstitions,
believe in yourself (Focused on TV) I'm going to eat some food (Kimchi fried rice arrived
at the same time) Did you see the one about what
Koreans almost never do? Pushing when it says pull,
pulling wen it says push Oh right Also, this is what Koreans do the best Not stepping on a threshold - Not stepping over someone's body
- Oh right But doesn't doing that
make you feel upset? 9 minutes left now (Chaeyoung, Jiwon, and Hayoung
have been waiting forever..) 2 months! Those are good times (Cute) (Don't laugh) (Jiheon is cleaning up
after finishing her kimchi fried rice) (Going straight to her bed) (Focused on reading webtoon..) Someone must've painted
the room with honey My bed must've been
painted with honey Hello? Mommy (Jiheon is on a phone call with her mom)
Oriental melon? Sounds good I want fruits so much right now Okay bye (Jiwon came out to the living room
because she felt hungry) Oh, I think it came What? Did it come? (Quickly) Hello? (Salmon & beef tartare are finally arrived)
The food is downstairs Okay (Quickly) (Where's everyone?) Looks good Have some We ordered food I haven't had salmon in so long I'll try a bite Go ahead I'll have the yakurt Give me some yakurt For real? For real? Can I drink the whole thing? (Chaeyoung, Jiwon, and Hayoung's
salmon & beef tartare arrived) Chaeyoung, where should we eat? In the room? Bring a table Are we eating here? - Are we eating here?
- Let's eat here Serious? Table Should we eat in the kitchen? Here is a table (Shivering) (Ignoring)
Where is the table? (Shivering) (Ignoring)
Here Ah, why would you do that? (These 3 are still into the TV show) Kaakkk (Excited for the food) Kaak Seoyeon, kids shouldn't watch this (Yelling at her with her eyes) (300% concentrated on the show)
It's not like they died or anything - They can get in touch
- Right, they can get in touch and visit It's sad (Hayoung is cooking fried eggs)
It's not like they died or anything - They can get in touch
- Right, they can get in touch and visit It's sad It's Washington (Look at us watching drama.mp4) (Concentrated) (Gyuri came to watch her cooking) - Let me show you something cute
- Something cute? Look here (Hayoung is excited for the fried eggs) Hayoung Yes Give me 1 bite of your food It looks good (Jiwon & Chaeyoung came to see
Hayoung's cooking as well) - Hayoung, I'll eat a piece of your salmon
- Okay (Chaeyoung got a seat
in front of the TV) (Finished making the fried eggs) (1 bite) (Hehe) (Not getting out of the bed hahaha) (Relaxing like any other day) (Getting ready to go out) You didn't go outside
today either, right? It feels cool out (Jisun's almost finished
with her breakfast) (Breakfast is done) (After having breakfast,
they're watching TV in peace) Yum - Is it okay?
- Yes Don't you want
to dip this in mustard? (Hayoung is impressed by Jisun's cooking)
I don't like mustard, so I'd like gochujang with vinegar Gochujang with vinegar? - Oh, with this?
- Yes Hmm.. No, not that (gochujang with vinegar) No, no - You need whole grain mustard with this
- I'm full I should stop eating I'll eat the beef tartare Go ahead What did you eat? It looks
completely uneaten Oh, the rice - I ate only rice for no good reason
- You ate as much as a tiny bird would eat Doesn't she eat so little? She does She eats bits at a time,
she won't eat vegetables either Jiwon never finishes her food
when she says she's done eating Even when her stomach is not big,
she pulls her stomach out like this and she says,
"Look how big my stomach is" - "Isn't my stomach so huge?"
- Right She really does that She makes her waist bend She does this with her waist
and says, "Look how big my belly is" "Wow, isn't it so big?" Then, JIheon went, "Jiwon, look at me" and her stomach was actually this big - It was really this big
- Wow, you are so cute today Jiheon would say, "Jiwon,
this is what you call a big belly" Then, we'd say,
"Jiheon, that really is big" (Hahaha) (Got hyper after eating) (No one plays along) I'm done, so (let's clean up) (Don't clean up)
Don't Don't clean up? - Is this chicken breast.. or duck?
- Yes Duck breast It tasted like duck chicken What's duck chicken? You're sharp It tasted like duck I saw your video in the morning - ASMR?
- Yes (Embarrassed) I see them when they come out.. - I skip around
- Hayoung's feeling conscious of the camera Have you watched it? - I have, I saw the one with spicy rice cakes
- You have? I have, I saw the one
where she's picking an ear I want to try it too By the way, I like that sound (This subscriber is giving positive feedback(?))
The face pack The face pack The one which foams up if you rub it The black pack - I liked the sound it made
- Yeah I want to eat something sweet Bell peppers? Crackers Ah.. I can't decide Should I eat some snacks? They (Jiwon & Chaeyoung)
get huge portions Right, she needs to get more food She and Chaeyoung.. get huge amounts I have to tell them
to get less all the time But you really enjoy
all the food though That's right I can't help it (Watching TV in the same position as before)
They look like a couple almost Look at their posture (Jiwon got back to her bed fast)
Oh the salmon The beef tartare and salmon
tasted too fishy I'm so sick of them now - Don't say that, you loved it when you had it
- I know - There I go again, I loved it when I had it
- Right, right This is why I gain weight The food has 0 calories if you love it You'll gain weight since
you said it tasted fishy Let's watch Net*lix,
let's watch Net*lix I want something sweet I get why she wanted desserts You ate so little for breakfast Nonsense You didn't eat almost any of it I ate all of those rice balls - I ate everything you left over
- Good job What did I eat today? Crab meat, cookie, cereal, rice Wow, I had 4 meals today That's not 4 meals, Jiwon.. - Anyway, 4 things..
- Count water too, why don't you? - Huh?
- Count water too I had 4 kinds of food Chaeyoung Chaeyoung, I'm bored You just said you were
going to watch Net*lix.. (Hesitant) Why are you looking
at Bae*in again? It's *-mart You can order from here You said you'll watch Net*lix but you were
looking at a food delivery app instead Do you look at the food delivery app
like you'd watch a movie? She said let me watch Net*lix Then, I saw her behind me
looking at Bae*in It's ridiculous You know that grocery store, right? I really wanted to eat fruits.. She even wanted it
right after eating breakfast Right I needed to eat desserts So I was going to order something,
but there was nothing good to order A 5,000 won discount
for first *-mart order I'm downloading it (Clap, clap, clap (Soulless)) Babe, babe Babe Whose your babe? You Don't say such weird things (Hahaha) Babe I thought she said excuse me, sir It's so funny I can't do this My lung.. my lung (hurts) (Struggling) I couldn't get up (Struggling, struggling) What's wrong with her? Who are you..? (Glaring) When I see a camera, I feel like
I need to say something to it - I tried to let go of such a feeling
- Really? I should let this go too then.. Are you full? No, I decided to eat less.. - Really?
- Yes (Nagyung & Seoyeon finished watching TV)
I'm going to go up Should I go up too? I'm sleepy, I'm sleepy Jisun, Ponyo was fun - What?
- Ponyo She's not my friend It wasn't you? She's not my friend (After teasing Jisun,
Seoyeon slowly goes away) (Nagyung came back to bed) (Getting ready to sleep) I don't like the light,
so I blocked everything out Jisun was considerate of me, so she created another layer
with her clothes to block the lights out (Nagyung is happy
she's back in her bed) (Hayoung & Jisun became
the last ones to finish their breakfast) (Cleaning up) Let's clean up, and
what should we do now? - Some stupid person is singing outside
- Someone's singing Song Stupid? Song Hayoung? Song Habo Song Ha*bo Song Ha*bo, Ha*bo Here is another stupid person Put the recyclable materials
in the recycling bin Regular trash goes
in the regular bin Food waste (Jisun seems like she's used to it)
goes in the food waste bin I'm done cleaning What do you guys think
about people in the other 2 rooms? I'm sorry but there is someone from the 2nd floor there
and someone in the other room here.. - Even the oldest unni
- They are watching us from both sides The oldest unnis are watching us right now Speak wisely - First off, for the second 2nd floor
- Speak wisely The aroma.. They are like aroma salespeople So if you go upstairs,
you can smell perfume All 4 members who love
perfume are rooming together So the 2nd floor (ultimately) is
for perfumez - Smellyz
- Smellyz Smellyz? - Sniff-sniffz
- They smell a lot - All these members smell
- Change it to scent It's a room full of smelly people What she means is they are unique Right, unique Smellyz? Lately, I've been feeling that.. The people in the 3 people room are.. interesting - I'd go there, and someone's cutting clothes..
- Right - Yesterday, someone was twerking
- Really? They are.. they are.. interesting People on the 2nd floor are
most normal of all fromis_9 members And for people in that room, let's say
you want to have a special day for yourself If you are feeling a bit bored today, you can go to that room - 15 seconds is enough
- and learn some tricks and things like twerking - You can cut clothes
- You can learn how to stand with your head on the floor First off.. It's noisy in Chaeyoung's room,
and for the room on the 2nd floor.. Ang (Hahaha) For the 1st floor..
Don't we know everything? We can hear everything they are saying So we know everything almost.. We know almost everything - Also, since we are on the same floor, we see each other more
- Right Also, Gyuri & Jiheon are.. just.. They are the ones who sleep early - Sleep-earlyz
- Sleep-earlyz People on the 2nd floor are girly,
I think that's how I'd describe them in 1 word Saerom, Jisun, Nagyung, and Seoyeon
are great for each other Don't they give off a similar vibe?
Those 4 people have a similar vibe So do we, and those 3 also
have a similar vibe I think we are teamed up
with similar people As you live together, did you ever get
curious about someone in another room? I don't know why
she's such a pro liar.. - I don't know why she lies so much..
- Saerom'd say she'd come back to our room We would talk about things
and just when it starts to get fun she says, "I got to go" "I'll come back after shower" So when we say, "Don't go", she'd say, "I'll come back after shower" So we'd wait for her like
a bunch of abandoned ducklings.. But she'd never came back.. It's obvious It's because I got tired When I'm with you guys, I get so tired I'm kidding No, it's not a joke How many egos do you have? We waited for such a long time We waited for over 2 hours Saerom would put on lotion She puts on lotion from top to bottom Saerom puts it on to make
sure she smells nice - So I'd try to understand why she takes so long
- Can you please use the word scent? I didn't leave because I got tired I really meant to come back
after showering but after I wash up.. I get so tired, I can't go back down.. I lose energy to go downstairs So I just fall asleep - The steps are pretty tall
- I never meant to not go The steps being tall
has nothing to do with it - I always.. fall sleep?
- Whatever, they are tall Now that I think over it
that means I was tired You guys stole all my energy (Nagyung is getting ready to go out) (Getting ready to go out with Seoyeon)
Let's go The weather is so nice,
we couldn't resist coming outside We came out with a mask this huge (Nagyung & Seoyeon is happy
to be outside in a while) Wow, what should I do now? (Won't playing along)
Hey Super mad Where are you going? (They are walking around the town)
Hey, I want some shaved ice Shaved ice The weather is so great (200% hyper)
It's almost time for the appointment Where is our Seoyeon? Seoyeon, the flower are so pretty,
do you think any of them look like me? (Stepped away)
Oh okay.. (2nd try)
Does any of them look like me? (Ignored)
Hey Returning after drinking coffee - Bye
- Bye See you at the dorm, bye (Nagyung got a bit tired
after her walk with Seoyeon) (Checking how she looks) (Nagyung's beauty opened up the eyes) (Nagyung is debating whether
she should put her hair down or not) Hi! I'm Saerom from fromis_9 Ang Hi, I'm Nagyung from fromis_9 Ang Guys, please stop the sound violence (Hayoung fell asleep
after eating and woke up again) (Staring blankly...) (Tap) (Tap) (Tap) (You thought it was over, didn't you?) (fromis_9's dinner got more real) Unni.. What an awful thing to say (No one can stop fromis_9) (Stay tuned for next week's episode of Channel_9)
No, no, no 