All right lads welcome back to my channel if you are new here, my name is Tom Harlock And I do not have an intro but I do have the love respect and total admiration of the entire of the Western world There's tons of comments made about me every single day talking about how I'm so stunning. I'm so amazing and breathtaking So deluded there's very rarely a negative thing said about me and if there is I don't see it due to YouTube's Restricted comment section. On YouTube if you leave a nasty or hateful comment It gets filtered out for my approval, and every now and again I like to take a little dive into the restricted comment sections to humble myself And to entertain you. Before I start today. I want to give a big thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring today's video If you have watched my a-z of mean comments video from last year, then you're gonna know how this goes I started at A and work my way through the alphabet Feeling slightly worse with every letter that passes. Let's begin a big fat shock. We're gonna start with the letter A a Anyone else feel like Tom jerks off to his own reflection The only mirror I masturbate in front of is a one-way mirror in the police station and on the other side is your mom Confessing to the fact that your dad beats her up because you're such a terrible fucking son I'm sorry, how do you feel you're the cause of your family's breakup? am i pushing my insecurities in somebody else hm next B boy, just because you're not in the rewind doesn't mean you have to hate what the fuck I bet if you would be in the Rewind you'd be like I'm in the rewind. I'm the best Blah-blah-blah-blah. Do you think  i need to be in YouTube rewind to think on but you think that I need to be in YouTube rewind To think that I'm better than anyone else I wouldn't accept the position in YouTube rewind anyway What they're gonna do show half a frame of my face for half a second don't think so Thank you very much YouTube rewind if you're watching I will only gladly accept a position if I am the person at the front with liza and lily (lele) Pons, you know introducing the shit How does it make you feel the eve of zero chance of ever being in the rewind because as soon as you start an online? Career Ricky gacha 002 I'm gonna completely ruin it by spreading false rumors about you being a sexual predator I shouldn't joke about that I'm doing a second B because that's left a bad taste in my mouth (B again) Bitch, you can't have 62 videos but 59 of them in a statistically banging playlist. Who do you think you are? Who do I think I am? I think I'm Tom bloody Harlock in fact I don't actually know quite who I am because I was gonna do one of those ancestry DNA kits when you send them off in the post and they're like Oh 16th unicorn 17th Cherokee 18th Honda and it's like I don't really want to do it because then they have my DNA on file And I know that I'm gonna commit a very terrible crime in the future Not sure what not sure when not sure if it's gonna involve other people not sure if you should be worried (i'd be worried) But I know that I'm probably gonna regret the day that I give my DNA voluntarily over to the authorities I'm sorry But I'm not in the business of paying a hundred pounds to dob myself in for a future crime that I haven't even committed Moving on (c) could probably fit that goes torso in your under eye bags go get some fucking sleep Under eye bags? you believe I've got under-eye bags For all you know, I could have a genetic disease. I mean I don't I but I definitely could, and how would you feel then? Taking the piss out of my under-eye bags, you know what I'm gonna do with these under-eye bags I'm gonna tie them to your ankles and fill them with rocks and then throw you into the nearest lakes with these under-eye Bags, how does that make you feel? Under eye bags, perhaps I went too far and took them. No, actually I completely disagree with my previous Thought I didn't take that too far I didnt take it far enough. I need to stop threatening to kill people moving on (d) Mmm, dear Tom. Fuck you You wish you absolutely bloody wish stop coming on to my youtube comment section talking about your dirty fantasies None of us want to hear it you wish you had the opportunity to be around all of this Every time some hoe comments about their BTS army or whatever on a completely unrelated video, I want to choke myself to death I don't understand why people want to choke themselves to death when they very much have the option of choking Themselves to the limit of death staying on the hum of life and experiencing a most intense orgasm honestly auto-erotic asphyxiation Get it in your life. Find out about that moving on to F Fuck I'm a Gemini. I was supposed to have a twin shit. Where did they go? Don't wanna break it to you, but you ate it in the womb (G) genuine question. Do you think you deserve rights? I'm left-handed Is this a trick question? Genuine questions you think liking kpop is a replacement for a personality He has gotten hotter, I swear to God. and when you notice BTS is in the background music Can I marry him? That's quite a nice co- He's a fat fuck. Thanks so much for that reply grace Honestly makes me feel terrific and amazing and you're all the reason I have an eating disorder How does that make you feel? (i) I guess I'm on unhygienic and dirty. I'm 11 you asshole I can't help it This is from when I mentioned that if you have acne, it means you're dirty. All right, you caught me Daniel Howell's crins card I don't think people who have acne are unhygienic. I'll admit my mistake. I don't think they're on unhygienic I think they're bad people and this is God's Way of punishing them God's given you pits because you're a terrible person (j) juuling won't bring your dad... back nope, but juuling is the reason my dad left he walked into my room one day and went son, what's that in your hand And I went sir. It's an e-cigarette and he went son. This is the last time I'm gonna be seeing you Kill me. No offense Andrew left But don't come on my comments section talking about how you want to be killed, alright? It's not all about you if I anyone was gonna get killed around here. It's me and no one else. Thank you very much (L) Doesn't exist... (M) Madeleine McCann inspired your dad to leave well Madeleine McCann inspired your Parents take a trip to the Portuguese Algarve, go out for a dinner at the tapas restaurant Leave the apartment front door open and their plan was going swimmingly until they realized you were far too ugly to even be abducted Not being rude, but are you forty?
Not being rude, Jenny, but did your parents spell your name with two i's If so, they're fucking idiots. (o) Oh my god, my family just got on a car crash. Anyway Stan list uhh.. I don't think you can say 'got into a car crash' when they intentionally Told you to undo your seat belt and then they drove 50 miles an hour into the nearest brick wall anyways, stanlist. (p) Pray for my sister. She ain't dead. She just watches Tom Harlock videos. Oh my god I will pray for her being your sister and also being alive must be a terrible existence. (Q) Quite cute when he doesn't open his mouth which is ironic because my hourly rate shoots through the roof when I do (R) Rory Gilmour looking ass. Who the fuck be Rory Gilmore? I mean, I can only assume it's a very attractive and handsome man, Rory... Gilmore Exactly, how big do you think my vagina is? (s) Stewart little is a mouse, you pathetic excuse for a human. number one: Don't ever call me a human again Number two: Stewart little is not a mouse what most you know can ride a car? (T) This fucker has air pods unsubscribed What was that hami? sorry, I didn't quite hear you over the sound of your low income You sound extremely cold. Why the fuck is your voice so wiggly? I'm not cold, okay? I'm just passionate (V) Vore me, pussy. The only reason I would get pregnant via your human body is so I could abort you full term (W) where is the reading for cancer? You want me to read people with cancer? I think they've got enough on their plate if I'm completely honest (X doesn't exist so moving on to Y...) You are the modern world Draco Malfoy. A fucking cunt. I'm actually a really nice person people get the wrong idea of me all the time Because I've got blonde slick-back hair. People are constantly like Oh, Draco Malfoy. Ooh Aryan race and it's like yeah, you know what? I might be blond and I might be stunning might be successful That's it that's the sentence. (Z) fuck is a ze- fuck is a zed? Fuck is a zed? What on earth is a bloody Zee, mate. Don't get me started on this. What on earth do you Americans even learn in schools Well, other than active school shooter drills Personally, I think the comments in this video could have been a little bit harsher But please don't take that as a challenge as I am very very fragile Thank you again to Squarespace for sponsoring. That's all for today's video I hope you guys enjoyed it. If you did, let me know down below in the comments Maybe leave a nice one. So it doesn't get restricted subscribe for more and like the video if you did. Thanks for watchin I love you guys. Bye 