I really come to realize doing this series that most of, or all of my D&D sessions I've been in consists of... Chaos, Panic, and Screaming. But I think that's just a side effect of playing D&D. So last time we kind of had some... chaos, panic, and screaming. Yeah As Sips went a bit bonkers, doing some murder and fighting Gothi. The group avoided some consequences, while Arina... still keeps forgetful Sips in the dark about what happened. Gothy: Why are you like this? Dingo:  you know, due to the fear of being MURDERD oh and uh Mr. Wizardly is now Mrs. Wizardly [glass shatters and Mr.Wizardly screams ] That is my [sigh] That is my favorite thing. So now the group looks on to a beaten and bloodied unconscious Sneeze Just lying in the trash Sips: That's it, I'm murdering someone [Arina screams] Naturally. So we load him up with a healing potion to get him back on his feet and ask what happened. Okay so... Through the entire campaign. We always joke that Sips knew exactly what Sneeze was saying even though he had no tongue. I mean, alright but I don't know where you're gonna find that many illegal fighting turtles. Dingo: And Sips does But me the player, does not. As in, how do you question a creature that doesn't talk? F**k Together we play an intense game of charades like idiots til someone remembers pen and paper exist. I. Never said I was a smart player. Reading, we found out that last night before the whole berry incident Sneeze left the party to hit up the local casino since he cleared out Mr. Wizardly and was looking to win more cash And win cash, he  did. A LOT of it. till the casino head honcho and our next NPC Vashinco pretty much the mob boss Challenged him to a poker game. Which, Vashinco lost Naturally. Accused sneeze of cheating roughed him up stole all his cash and threw him out in the alley You know how it goes Gothi: Were are you cheating? Nice Okay. Well, so we just gotta go and find... Hey!  Where are you going? What do you think! *sings* Gonna go murder a guy Arina: Wait! God, Arina, what?! Well uh, We should be a bit more tactical than just straight up murder right? Sure First I'll go in there. Find him Break all his bones Then, I'll murder him. boom Tactical. uh oh! And I'll burn down his casino Gothi: He is trying Good, good effort? But why don't we try my plan? So we discussed around the table about Arina's plan. That does NOT involve... setting a casino on fire so 7 out of 10 plan But it DOES involve... us getting into fancy clothes. I just Got out of these. Are you just stalling for time knowing that eventually you're gonna have to tell sips everything and get potentially murdered hmm This better work or I WILL light the casino on fire *high pitch* Let's get going... Gothi: Thought so. Following Arina's lead, we make our way through the casino. seeing that it is not only occupied by lowlifes but also... Vampires. I still vote fire Shush Through the guards we get a meeting with Vashinco and enter his office to see him up close and personal And yeah Evil Vampire Lord Neat. *accent* What do you want? Oh, it's that the accent you're going for? Yes. I'm going for kind of an Eastern European thing I... what do you want?! Well, Mr. Vampire... I uh- wha- I Am NOT vampire. Why, why would you think that? umm Must have read it somewhere Now I know how the Baron wouldn't be super stoked there's a vampire Lord in the city but that's not why I'm here... I'm here to offer you a deal as we'd love to work with you Really? Cuz your monkey does not look too enthused hrmm Oh that's just his face Yeah, he always looks like that -Now about that deal So Arina's plan goes like this... We offer Vashinco to purchase the giant mech dragon outside the city for like 2 million gold pieces Luring him away from the city and essentially rob and kill him? To be honest I don't remember a lot. But all I know is I'm on the Revenge Train So with some Hype and Bluff roles, we convince Vashinco to head to the dragon I mean, we're like D&D car salesmen at this point. Now you may be asking or not at all About how can we take a vampire out in broad daylight? Well Felix has some homebrew rules that vampires can go in the sunlight But only if they drink blood on a regular basis as long as they're fed, they're fine So just wanted to make that clear. Don't @me. @Felix [Felix]: What?! anyway... We travel with Jawbone cuz you know, he's a good murder machine if need be. Arriving at the dragon the group splits. The guards get it tore down on the ground While the Vashinco and Sips take a tour on top Leaving us alone Hmm yes good. I like buttons [choking] When I cast choke yes, we're doing this again Arina and Gothi hearing this immediately start combat with the guards Now.. [grunting and screeching] Now, I'm gonna give you two options first option: you apologize to my friend the one you nearly killed last night Annnnnd you give back his winnings, but triple it Or the second option... I kill you right here right now and take ALL your money Then burn your casino to the ground. I'm personally hoping you go with option two. As Sips is staring down. Mr. Vampire. He suddenly feels something coming over him. Now do you guys remember anything about vampires? They got the Sun thing suckin blood turning into a bat and uh... Oh, oh, yeah if you stare into their eyes they can... enthrall you AKA dominate person. AKA Mind Control Yeah, I forgot about that As Sips fails his  Will Save and becomes... enthralled. Yes, we're doing this again In full vampire mind control, Sips lowers Vashinco to the ground releasing him [coughs] First of all rude Second. Why don't I tell you about all the options you don't have As now I have you under my control Where first I'll make you... Kill your friends. then maybe I'll... wait. How much money can I get for a pissy monkey? hrmph Then suddenly he stops and becomes frozen in place unable to move. He grits his teeth in pain snapping sips out of his trance What? Did you try to mind-control me? I always forget they can do that But Sips gets no reaction as he sees Vashinco trembling, in fear I mean you chose option two man. Then Sips hears a slight mutter of "stop it" Stop it. Stop it Whoa, wait, what are you? Vashinco's body jerks wanting to run but it can't, like it's being held by an unnatural force Get out of my head. Get out of my head GET OUT OF MY HEAD Look buddy. I don't know what the hell you're talking - Sips feel something Something familiar The same intense pain in his mind he's felt before. Then both Vashinco and Sips let out an agonizing scream as wild magic shoots off of sips his body while Vashinco violently wretches forward crumpling to the floor Falling to his knees Sips looks up to see the vampire lord dead. His body slowly turning into ash then silence But only for moment As Sips, hears a voice in his head. Male, stern, and precise simply say, "interesting" What? the f**k? Arina, Jawbone, and Gothi finish off the two large vampire guards Where Gothi almost DIED, by the way [Splat] Gothi: I'm good. They were beefy boys [retches] With health potions we regroup Sips tells of what happened not including the strange voice though He's unsure if it was real. It was just weird, you know [hiccup] Uh Sips you should look at your hand. What? [GASP] Don't freakout! Hrrnnnnnn Arina has something she would like to tell you. um well at the party last night, someone... not naming names Arina I... kind of threw a blood moon berry into your mouth cuz I thought it would be funny and uh... Well it kind of brought your curse back - to fifty percent - and uh Then something happened What happened? [With remorse] Nothing good. What happened? - Arina: you went insane and Killed a lot of people But it wasn't your fault. Yeah. You were bonkers crazy. I mean you attacked Gothy for God's sakes What? You're not helping Arina. Look, there's obviously something going on with your curse. -It's more difficult than we thought. But we'll work together -Find a solution -Maybe we go back to alchemists But Sips wasn't listening anymore Nah, his mind was somewhere else. Seeing his curse come back hearing all this, it was a lot. All those emotions that were lost last night came back The fear, anger, shame, and something new sadness Sadness that just when he thought he had control of his own goddamn life. He was back to square one I know you all want Sips to kill Arina and as Sips's player I get it Believe me. But as much as she's at fault Sips saw the curse coming back as.. an inevitability. The berry... didn't bring back the curse because the curse never left if not the berry, something else. It would come back regardless, it just needed time. So... No, he is not murdering Arina today Cuz instead, he starts to walk towards Rascom uhh Where are you going? I'm gonna go burn down a casino Well... that went better than expected [slap] Link in the description. Also the deck of many and I will be at the 2019 pax unplugged this year I'm gonna be doing my very first panel Hrnnn with Puffin Forest and Joe Cat at 11:30 a.m. To 12:30 p.m. On December 7th at the Mothman theater, so if you're around Come and see us panic. Then that same day. I will also be signing at the deck of many's booth, number 4001 from 2 p.m Til I get tired Which will probably be 3 or so due to the emotional rollercoaster of being on a panel that day so I'll be signing stuff along with you will be able to get the animated spell card I did which was [drum roll] Lightning bolt and [party toy noise] We will have the fancy ones at the booth with sips on it also Thanks, everyone who guessed which card it was in the comment section a lot of you guys got it, right? I saw you. So come by if you're around. If not, it's cool God I'm very nervous Yeah 