Sup ya beautiful bastards. Hope you havin a fantastic Tuesday. Welcome back to the Philip Defranco show and let's just jump into it. And the first thing we're gonna talk about today one of the most requested Stories today is Roseanne Barr was back in the news for what the hill called a racially charged tweet Although many others are just calling it outright racist. The target of the tweet is former Obama White House advisor Valerie Jarrett Roseanne tweeted Muslim Brotherhood and Planet of the Apes had a baby equals VJ. VJ of course being Valerie Jarrett's initials Roseanne Barr then eventually ended up deleting that tweet later tweeting. I apologize I am now leaving Twitter, I apologize to Valerie Jarrett and to all Americans I'm truly sorry for making a bad joke about her politics and her looks I should have known better. Forgive me My joke was in bad taste and all of that I have to say and obviously this part is my opinion I say this as someone that on this show has defended comedians many times I don't know if that was really a joke. It kind of just sounds like you're going after her politics Yes by pairing her with the Muslim Brotherhood And then also just saying she looks like a monkey or ape. And then when there was pushback you're like, oh no It was just a bad joke. Also, I understand that we all come from different walks of life We have different life experiences We have different lines kind of in the sand where we think something is racist But usually I feel like it's almost a universal calling a black person or a person with a dark skinned Monkey or ape or referring to them as one in a roundabout way pretty racist You can't really even argue or at least Successfully argue outside of your own echo-chamber that she wasn't using that as a way to reference how she looked because even in her apology She references that she was taking aim at her looks but to jump from my opinion back to the story. Of course Now you're seeing a lot of people calling on ABC to get Roseanne off the air many pointing out that Disney owns ABC and ESPN and that's notable because ESPN, you might remember we even covered the story, suspended Jamel Hill. This is because she was speaking out against the president called him a white supremacist and so you have many people saying that if ABC or more importantly Disney here do not take action against Roseanne that is proof of A double standard, especially since some argue with Roseanne and we see a pattern of behavior. Many people pointing to a past moment where Roseanne called Susan Rice a man with big swinging eight balls and actually wow last second update to this story Roseanne has now been canceled. ABC Entertainment president, Shannon Dungy saying Roseanne's Twitter statement is abhorrent repugnant and inconsistent with our values and we have decided to cancel her show. And along with that We also saw executive producer and co-star Sara Gilbert tweeting about the situation denouncing Roseanne's comments and saying they do not reflect the beliefs of our cast and crew or anyone associated with our show I am disappointed in her actions to say the least and adding this is incredibly sad and difficult for all of us as we created a show that we believe in are proud of and that Audiences love, one that is separate and apart from the opinions and words of one cast member and actually now an even more recent update Reportedly Roseanne Barr has now been dropped as a client by ICM partners with all that said I do want to pass the question off to you What is your takeaway from this situation? Did you see this as a bad joke that didn't land or is this just an example of racism? Also, do you think the show should have been canceled? Yes or no? and I'm really interested on your opinion there because I've seen a variety of arguments regarding yes or no. A lot of people saying of course they had to cancel it, if they did not cancel the show or do something with Roseanne it would just seem like they were co-signing that behavior. You also have others arguing that it's not a great trend for people to lose their jobs based off of things that they say and if there is public pushback, let the audience decide if they want to continue watching the show or not. So yeah
let me know where you land on this in those comments down below and then let's talk about 'video games is serious business' news because Today we learned that PUBG Corp The studio behind PUBG is suing Epic Games, the developer behind Fortnite, the lawsuit claiming copyright Infringement specifically that fortnight's battle royale mode copies PUBG's interface and in-game items and even though we're just learning about this today Reportedly the lawsuit was filed back in January It's also not even a huge surprise that this lawsuit is happening. Back in 2017 Blue Hole which is the parent company for PUBG Corp called out Epic Games, pointing out the similarities between the games. Saying that they might have to take legal actions and today we're learning that they moved on that. And the whole situation here is fascinating to me. Despite there being different maps different weapons, different art styles,   building in Fortnite. Games are ultimately similar at their core. Epic Games has even said that fortnight battle royale was inspired by not only PUBG but by its predecessor H1Z1 king of the kill Which was made by the same lead designer as PUBG We have people pointing out that even PUBG is based on an ARMA mod So were they essentially, through this, trying to say they own this game mode? All the while and this is kind of funny PUBG runs on the Unreal game engine which is developed by Epic Games. Also an important thing to note here is with this situation you're dealing with two courts The actual courts the legal situation and we'll see what happens there with a copyright situation but potentially the more important court here is the court of public opinion because if you look online people are not happy with PUBG. If people saying it's disgusting that you have this company seemingly trying to 'own a genre'. Many calling it a petty and desperate move to combat Fortnite's takeover of the space. And it will be interesting to see in the coming weeks, the coming months if this legal move pushes people that were sticking With PUBG away and it really wouldn't be surprising to me if that's what we see take place And as of right now I see nothing slowing down Fortnite. You've got fantastic professional but also at the same time exciting faces at the forefront like Ninja. A guy who and he really should get more credit for this because you don't always see a lot of the people at the top kind of bring people up with them but promotes other streamers. It's great for him It's great for Twitch. It's great for Fortnite. Then on top of that we've seen the rise of weekly tournaments from third parties and that was before Epic Games announced that they're putting 100 million dollars into competitive Fortnite, but ultimately like with all situations we're gonna have to wait and see what happens. But to those of you kind of in this world whether you play PUBG whether you play Fortnite I'd love to know your thoughts here. But from that I want to share some stuff I love today and Today in Awesome Then we got the honest trailers for Every Christopher Nolan Movie Whatever the hell that Golden Knight's opening ceremony was. If it's your kind of thing Weezer has also now covered Africa. We had Kevin Perry showing us 50 ways to enter a room and TED Ed gave us Are Naked Mole-rats the Strangest Mammals? And if you want to see the full versions of everything I just shared, the Secret Link of the Day, anything at all, links as always are in the description down below. And then let's talk about Mamoudou Gassama If you clicked on the secret link from yesterday's show you already know how this story starts. A video filmed in Paris went viral in the video we see someone who has now been identified as 22 year-old Mamoudou just gliding up a building to save a four-year-old boy who is dangling from a balcony. It's one of the most daring and amazing rescues I've ever seen and it has people calling him the real life spider-man One of the craziest things about this story is according to new reports the boy at the time the video was filmed had already fallen two stories before somehow managing to grab hold of the fourth-floor balcony. So the other person on the balcony who was trying to grab the child that some people had been identifying him as the father? No. That was just a random person who lived in the same building. Reportedly that resident couldn't really pick him up because there was a divider separating the two balconies and he feared dropping the kid. So that's why you see at that weird angle he's kind of just holding onto the kid's hand. And along with the general praise Mamoudou received from the general public we also saw politician standing up. Paris mayor Anne Hidalgo saying on her official Twitter Sunday that she had called Mamoudou to thank him for his act of bravery adding he explained to me that he arrived from Mali A few months ago with the dream of making a life for himself here I replied that his heroic act is an example for all citizens and that the city of Paris will obviously be keen to support him in his efforts to settle in France. French president Emmanuel Macron then met with Mamoudou on Monday presenting with a certificate in a gold medal for performing an act of courage and determination Macron also offered him a job at the Paris Fire Brigade also offering to speed up his citizenship process for his exceptional act and Mamoudou is reportedly granted a residency permit today and will receive French citizenship at a later date. But along with this feel-good hero Rising to the occasion moment. There is still the question of well, what about the parents? Where were they when the child was hanging off the balcony? How could they let this happen? As of right now, neither of the parents have been publicly named but according to a Paris prosecutor the boy was under the care of his father. The mother was reportedly not in Paris at that time and the boy had actually moved to Paris with his father about three weeks ago. The mother and the couple's second child were due to join them in June But the big standout here is reportedly the day of the incident the father had gone grocery shopping which took longer than expected to return home where he left his four year old according to the prosecutor took a long time to return home because he had decided to play the smartphone game 'Pokemon Go' when he left the store. He is devastated because he realizes what he did and the tragic consequences that it could have led to and I don't even know how to respond to that level of stupid. Rather than taking your four-year-old to the store with you, you left that child at home alone in an apartment with a balcony that you did not secure for an even longer a more extended period of time because you wanted to 'catch em all'. I want to slap whoever this man is in his dumb face. But actually as far as real-world punishment the father was taken into custody on Sunday authorities have reportedly charged him with 'failure to meet parental obligations' And that's potentially a big deal because that charge against him reportedly carries a sentence of up to two years in prison. That said, he was released after questioning and he has pending a trial scheduled for September And as of right now, as far as the status of the boy, reportedly he is okay. At the time of the incident the child was bleeding from his toe and had a torn nail, but he has not really suffered any other injuries. But there is also conflicting information as far as where he is right now. Most places are reporting that he was taken by the French authorities but the Telegraph is reporting that he was then given back to the father. But for now that is where this crazy story is and it'll be interesting to see what happens next. I guess the final note I want to hit on is Mamoudou is our BAMF of the day and the father here is our D-BAG of the day. And the question I want to pass off to you with this story is is what punishment if any do you think is appropriate for the father here? And I say 'if any' because I know my opinion is mine and you might have A different outlook on the story. And then let's talk about an update around Puerto Rico and hurricane Maria Now you may remember Hurricane Maria hit them, September 20th 2017. It was the most intense hurricane to hit the island in 80 years. And officially the death count is said to be 64 Although a few reports early on said this was likely an undercount. That in November We saw CNN estimate at least 500 in December, the New York Times estimating 1,000 and around the same time Puerto Rico's center for investigative Journalism finding similar results. And now this morning a group of independent researchers from Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health published their findings and the number is horrifying They estimate that the actual death toll was around four thousand six hundred forty-five And in fact, it could have possibly exceeded five thousand. And according to the study, of those dead approximately one third died due to delayed or interrupted medical care. And as far as how they got these numbers They reportedly visited 3,000 residences and found thirty-eight people living in households that had died between September 20th when Maria hit and the end of 2017. And they spread the residences between 104 Barrios to ensure even representation between urban and rural areas. That total was then converted into a mortality rate which was 14.3 deaths per thousand residents and then was used to estimate the total for the entire island. That estimate was then compared to statistics from 2016 which showed a 62 percent increase in the mortality rate after Maria. And as far as why there is a range in the possible dead, there there are multiple factors there. There's the possibility of over sampling in rural areas, estimates regarding total population, those could be off, the total number dead could actually even be higher because those that died alone could not be surveyed and researchers found that in remote areas one in five residences were empty. And as far as my opinion on this I think that it's just important that we pay attention to the situation whether it be two thousand or eight thousand one of the most important things to consider with a disaster like this or any disaster is that the death count is not just in that moment. The bodies will continue to pile up every day we do not get the survivors back to some sort of normalcy. And when we look to Puerto Rico there are still five percent of electric customers that still don't have power after all of this time. I think that's an important mindset for us to have in general but also hurricane season's back. We need to learn from these things. So that is where I'm going to end today's show And of course remember, this is the Philip DeFranco show whether it be the last story, the first one, anything in between, I love to know your thoughts today in those comments down below also Remember if you like this video, like what I'm trying to do on this channel, hit that Like button if you're new here hit that Subscribe button, ring that bell, it even sometimes works... Also if you did miss yesterday's Daily Show You want to catch up click or tap right there to watch that or if you need something a little bit lighter you can watch The newest behind the scenes vlog but that said, of course as always my name's Philip DeFranco. You've just been phill'd in, I love yo faces and i'll see you tomorrow. 