Clint: Dude that move, that move Gui: There's been times where I've been to the verge of tears Niko: It's actually giving me a headache trying to watch this and like analyze it Clint: This is all i'm seeing [Laughter] Niko: Hey guys, welcome back to another episode of Stuntmen React Niko: We're happy to be able to finally film with guests again and Gui has graciously come in Niko:  Gui is a legend, he's done some incredible things Niko: He's going to give you that professional insight into one of the most unique and coolest jobs that you could ever possibly have Clint: So yeah, we're gonna hop into some clips here Clint: Let's get started with one of my favorite Kung fu movies of all time Clint: Kung Fu Hustle is directed by one of my all-time favorite directors Clint:  I could go on for hours about how much I love Stephen Chow Gui: I love his versatility
Clint: Same Gui: Definitely one of my favorite directors of all time Clint: He is a genius [Yelling] Clint: So good Gui: So he's in... he's on a Hong Kong harness Gui: Which only... it's like a belt and it goes through... it's similar to what climbing harness looks like Clint: Okay Gui: He's picked at the hips, so that when he jumps Gui: They... they time it with him and doesn't lift up his shirt or anything like that Gui: What I really like about the Hong Kong harness is the fact that it allows Gui: Your athleticism to be part of the performance rather than you just going for the ride Clint: Yeah
Gui: In a sense, which they need him to do at this moment because he has to Gui: Be in rhythm with them and bounce and jump at the same time and throw the kicks and land Gui: And have that weight on top of it Niko: Kicks them so hard dust comes off of them Niko: They need to wash their clothes some more Clint: Wait a second Clint: How'd they get that dust puff, on that face kick right here? Clint:  Look at this Gui: Yeah
Clint: Did he throw it with his hand? Gui: No Gui: It's on his foot Niko: It just flicks off his toe Niko: Also in a little bit later you can see there's a part where he just slides his foot through a pile to kick it up into the air, also Niko: Gui, what do you use for that dust? Gui: I mean usually you use baby powder, but there is another kind of dust that's a little bit thicker, that we use Niko: You just slam his head on the ground Niko: Nope
Gui: No, he didn't he saved himself
Clint: That was a shoulder or something Gui: That was great Gui: That was actually a really good reaction Clint: He got caught Gui: Pow! look he used his arm to save himself Clint: He was like, "Boom!" Gui: Just enough Gui: Just... just... just enough Clint: Dude that enough got launched Clint: Look at this guy... roller coaster ride Niko: That's so rad such a sick reveal Gui: well this part's cg, right Clint: That's real
Gui: This is real and then he goes [Metal clinking] Gui: Absolutely VFX Gui: And then this is just glued together Gui: I believe it's Hung Ga Gui: It's a northern style, so it's very deep stances Gui: The style tiger that you see in kung fu films for the most part is of that origin Gui: Which also will explain why a lot of the... Gui: Martial arts movements of this style is it's always so big and round Gui: Because they're actually hitting with their forearms more than their fists at times Clint: Dude that move
Gui: Yeah, that double the jump split back kicks Clint: He does a really good job of making impossible moves look possible Gui: Right, He's very anime inspired Clint: Yeah Gui: That's what I really liked about Kung Fu Hustle and resonated with me Gui: Was his ability to take ideas from animation and put it into live action Clint: Dude, 100% Clint: He is the best director who's done anime to live action style Gui: Yes
Clint: Um, like Shaolin Soccer Clint: Dude
Gui: Right Clint: Dude Gui: Just doing it non-stop and everybody's just running out Gui: "Ahhh... We're going to get hit... Ahhh..." Niko: Dude aim for the top hats [Laughter] Gui: So much style, so much, like, that... that soul that's in it makes it even more fun to watch Niko: He's got the craziness in his eyes Niko: He's got that desperate... yeah Niko: He stomps with his foot when he hits at the same time and he holds it and everything just shakes because there's so much force behind it Clint: Yeah Niko: And like his chest is back, you know, it's like [Grunts]
Gui: Oh, man [Grunts]
Clint: Yeah Clint: It's so sick
Gui: It's so important [Fly buzzing] [Smack] Gui: Oh you.... mot- Niko: If anybody catches a fly on screen by the way Gui: I'm gonna... I'm ummm... Gui: By the end of this episode that that fly is mine Gui: There's... there's been times on this show, where I've doubled, uh, Turk, where I've been to the verge of tears Clint: Whoah Gui: Because of how... how... how much it hurts working nights, in New York City, during the fall winter is not fun Clint: Okay Gui: So, there's a fall here that I wasn't a fan of Clint: Ooh... Gui: So it's New York City, it's 2 a.m Gui: Close to 15 degrees outside and it's about 10 feet... 15 feet Gui: They are like, "He's... you're gonna you're gonna hit and splat" Gui: I'm like, "Cool. This is gonna be great" Gui: "We're gonna put a little neoprene mat for you" Gui: And neoprene's like this thick, you know Gui: That neoprene was actually harder than the roof Niko: Really?
Clint: What? Gui: Because when it's cold it stiffens up even more Gui: I did that maybe seven times Gui: I might as well should have just been landing on the ground without it Gui: Because it's not only just the impact, but then it's the freezing burn that comes after it Gui: Of your palms getting... scraping across your... your chest, get smacking Gui: And that wasn't fun, at all Clint: Here's my thing though Gui: Hmm? Clint: In the edit.... Well, you don't see the full thing Gui: Right, there's more to the chase than what they actually showed Gui: And they... they cut a good chunk of it out Gui: So i'm supposed to land on it... on a lower ledge, then jump to the stairs that you see over there Gui: And then i'm supposed to run and instead of go down the last flight i'm supposed to just jump Gui: And just try to make it, and that's what we do, but you know, you don't see it in the shot Gui: It just looks like I fell from on top of the ledge Gui: So again, you do a whole bunch of work and at times you're only going to get a third of it shown, you know, in the edit Gui: Charlie Cox is really cool though Gui: We were doing squats to stay warm Gui: He does squats before every scene, like, before they start action Gui: He... he pumps his heart up, he just gets it going Clint: Every... like no matter it's cold, no matter it's hot... everything?
Gui: Yep Gui: I'm gonna tell him he should come on here Niko: Yeah? Gui: And then you guys should do an actor's react Niko: You think he would do that? Gui: I don't see why not [Fly buzzing] [Smack]
Gui: Hey Gui: Did you get it? [Gasping] Gui: You got it Oh my god Clint: Okay, close up Gui: Get it [Fly buzzes off]
Everyone: Whoah! Gui: You got duked
[Laughter] Niko: Clint punches like a pansy
[Laughter] Clint: It's health bar is like down a little bit now
Gui: It's half now Clint: Yeah
Gui: It's moving a little slower now Niko: So Game of Thrones has some great sword fights and has some not great sword fights [Laughter]
Niko: I remember being pretty disappointed with this fight scene Clint: "Whoah"
[Grunts] [Laughter] Gui: Oh god Niko: These shots aren't really even showing any beat in particular, like, there you go, okay Niko: You show the block and then you show the swing and then... woohoo Gui: Like... what? Now his sword is all ready... and he's going for a thrust Gui: So I feel like they double cut that Gui: So that strike that we see... that overhand it Gui: The close-up that follows afterwards is actually for that strike Niko: Yeah, I agree 100%, that's just... that's the same move right there, play it again [Record scratch] Clint: What was that? [Laughter] Niko: She goes...
[Grunts] Niko: And then she-
Clint: Runs away Niko: Runs away [Laughter] Niko: "Just kidding, I'm back in the fight" Niko: Oh she won, she's bested him somehow Gui: No
Clint: How? I like literally... how? Clint: Hold on... hold on... hold on...
[Laughter] Gui: She kicked him in the back of the knee Clint: Like, actually, what happened... like really what happened? Gui: Spin moved and then she kicked him
Niko: She kicked him in the... face Clint: This is all i'm seeing Clint: Like Gui: I feel like
Clint: That's all I'm seeing Gui: She did that move once and they made it look like she did it twice Niko: Yeah Clint: Okay, that's probably what it was, and then somehow he's down Clint: I still don't know how he's down Gui: Right here Gui: It's right... kick Clint: Dude... blink
[Laughter] Gui: Kick
[Grunts] Clint: In the most like-
Niko: And then it cuts to her on the impact for some reason Clint: The most backwards, like, far away angle for a kick Niko: Also the hound is like the toughest motherf****** in Westeros Niko: He gets bonked in the chin with her toe and now he's down Niko: Yeah, it's actually it's like it's actually giving me a headache trying to watch this and like analyze it Gui: I'm trying to follow it Niko: Like, it's cut so roughly and like yeah, just none of the angles flow like they're forcing Niko: They're forcing it really hard Clint: Yeah, like I can't breathe watching this [Pained yelling] Clint: Yeah, this is better than the Sword fight Gui: Yeah Clint: But it's still it's getting a little... oof... getting a little Gui: Oh, now we're jumping Niko: It feels like a camera crew was just told to get a couple angles of a fight scene Niko: So they did and then there's just no cohesion Clint: You think they were just out there? Clint: They're like, "all right, we gotta film all this stuff" Clint: "You guys just just film this section, just film the fight scene" Niko: I kind of feel... I don't know man Niko: Like it was really... this is a big build-up and I think it was just a case of like, you know Niko: Both the actors wanted to do the scene themselves Niko: Some people just don't quite have it yet for sword fighting, you know Niko: When they did the Matrix, you know, Keanu Reeves and Laurence Fishburne Niko: They all had to train for like months and months and months, and I feel like this is like a couple weeks Gui: And it's also TV Niko: It's also TV Gui: There's been good fights on this show Gui: The Battle of the Bastards Gui: That was very well done Niko: It was an amazing fight scene Gui: And Niko: The trial by combat Niko: Oh, that's a good fight scene Gui: Liang is dope, the same dude choreographed and doubled, uh, for that fight scene Gui: He is in Mission Impossible Fallout, he fought Henry Cavill and- Gui: Yeah, so... they've captured stuff way better than that Niko: Let's just say they didn't have a lot of time on set Niko: You know, I would I would ascertain they maybe had a day or two to shoot this entire scene Niko: Gui? 
Gui: Yes? Niko: What would you do to make the scene better? Gui: I would get the shots that you need with your actors, your big points, and then I would use the wides that they have Gui: Where they're using the stunt performers and let that be the... the brandishing of the fight choreography and then cut in for the more visceral Gui: Intimate scenes that come on later on, but then it's up to the editor to make that come to fruition Gui: And I don't think it happened here Gui: And I get what they're trying to do because these are two very important characters to the story Gui: And they want to show them both being powerful Gui: But they're trying to get to the point of Brienne being able to win, her being a better fighter Gui: They could have played more to that and showed how she has to be smarter Gui: She has to be more strategic than just also being a brawler, or if they want her to just be a brawler Gui: Then they should just clash swords Gui: Somehow they both get disarmed and get right to the point of the nitty-gritty where they're punching and headbutting one another and then show Gui: Who has the best who, who has the most heart in that aspect Niko: What I would do is I would make it almost just like a uh Niko: Like a samurai showdown, where it's like, two dudes stare at each other talk Niko: Look Niko: Like they shot their hands up in the swords, the blades shining in the sunlight, the sweat dripping down the chin Niko: And they yell, they right each other Niko: "Bling bling bling" and they break apart again, and it's just like two or three hits Niko: And I wouldn't worry about the choreography at all because clearly the choreography isn't that good Niko: It would just be entirely about the emotion Gui: Setting up a fight and doing a fight Gui: On tel-, for television and doing it for film or you, you have different time with your actors in comparison Gui: They also have to... they're probably trying to shoot multiple things at the same time Gui: Because it's shot in so many different places and I wonder if this was a splinter unit trying to get this fight together Gui: So, I give them some sort of leeway, but they got way too much money and budget for game of thrones to look like this [Fly buzzing] Niko: Gui catch the fly, catch the fly, it's orbiting you, wait for it Niko: There it is [Fly buzzing] [Blowing] [Smack] Oh! Niko: You did it! you did it, he's right there [Laughter]
[Clapping] [Second fly buzzes] [Laughter] Niko: Oh my gosh Niko: Gui, thank you so much for joining us Niko: Guys follow Gui on instagram, if you have not Niko: He has some awesome stuff, ask him some questions. Maybe he'll respond [Smacking] Clint: What the... ? Clint: Did you get it? Christian: I got it Clint: Oh my god Niko: Oh sh- Clint: How many are there? How many are there? 