(Day of the showcase)
(Busy getting ready for the rehearsal) I think that's our stage Wow, look at those lights Today, I'm going to transform
into fierce ITZY Today, we're doing Houston! (Cute Yeji Monster in Houston) (On their way to the rehearsal
after getting ready) ALL in us!
Hello, we're ITZY! Nice to meet you! (Checking the choreography
before the rehearsal) (The dance rehearsal begins!) (Finished the dance rehearsal safely) (Carefully looking over the parts
that needed improvement) Thank you in advance for
the rest of the schedule! This has been ITZY! Thank you for your hard work! (Yeji and Yuna came out for a break)
I like the clear sky It's not that clear though... - It's an open sky
- It's very cloudy right now It feels open This is how I feel like right now Arriving at the valley with
my family on vacation and having a cookout in the rain (Relating to what she said)
Oh, yeah! I get that ITZY's doing a showcase!!! (Everyone must know about
ITZY's showcase!!!) (Yeji spotted something)
On top of buildings like that... Doesn't it remind you of Spider-Man? Or that King Kong movie, you know? (Enjoying their short break
after the rehearsal) We've seen too many movies (ITZY are busy getting ready
for the next stage) (Monitoring the rehearsal footage together) (Checking their choreography once more
for a flawless performance) When we do "Cherry" (choreography)... Let's go over the horizontal
and diagonal angles once again when we make this move (Concentrating) A bit lower to 45 degrees If it's confusing, just bring it down to
45 degrees and reach out First I do this, then drop it to 45 degrees [Chaeryeong] Shall we
just do it horizontally? (Adjusting choreography)
Make it horizontal for everyone? Yeah, let's do that (About 30 minutes to go until
meeting MIDZY in Houston!) (At the same time,
MIDZY are waiting for ITZY) ITZY, fighting! (ITZY are watching MIDZY
on a monitor behind the stage) (So nervous) Houston! Let's burn the stage! (Doing their "ITZY, MIDZY, let's fly"
ritual before getting up on stage) (Now, it's really time to meet MIDZY!) (The Houston Showcase they've all been
waiting for has finally begun) ALL in us!
Hi, we are ITZY! Actually, we came here yesterday and we couldn't just wait for today
to meet you guys all I know that... I love you, Lia!!! I love you, too So thank you and I hope you guys
have an unforgettable night today Let's have fun today Thank you, guys (The CHALLENGE MIX SONG begins
with MIDZY cheering!) (MUSIC START) (Focusing) (Chaeryeong raised her hand!) "Gotta Go" by Chung Ha And EXO's... (Turns out she has no idea)
"I Don't Think So" Wrong! (Next turn goes to Ryujin!)
"Gotta Go" by Chung Ha "Obsession" by EXO,
and "BBIBBI" by IU (Ryujin's answer, 1. Gotta Go,
2. Obsession, 3. BBIBBI) (Nope) Last one is... (Asking for help from MIDZY
with her eyes) (Time's up!) (Deciding who gets to go next with
a friendly game of rock, paper, scissors) (Ryujin won) (Ryujin's answer, 1. Gotta Go,
2. BBIBBI, 3. Any Song) (Well...??) (The queen of the mix song game) (Ryujin took the number one spot
today as well) Second time to be first (The winner gets a Houston mug!) (Yeji and Lia came in last) (Their penalty is to
copy the pose in the photos) (Control C+V) (The second photo is of beaming Lia) Three, two, one! (Mind-blowingly adorable!) (The third photo is of Yeji and Lia) Did they know that we were gonna be last? (The photo that anticipated
Yeji and Jisoo's downfall) (The fourth one is of happy Yuna) (Well? Will Lia be able to pull it off?) (The innocent-looking smile is spot-on) (Giggling) (The final shot is the legendary
"Am I funny to you?" meme) (Yeji goes for it) (Not quite...)
Am I funny to you? Chaeryeng, can you show us
how it's done? (Chaeryeong, show us!!!) (Am I funny to you...?) (With Chaeryeong's help,
Yeji completed her penalty!) (The Houston Showcase is almost over)
It is our last stage now Please do enjoy our last two songs "DALLA DALLA" and "Want it" Thank you so much (The final stage of their
third showcase began) (The sound of MIDZY cheering
always gives strength to ITZY) (Their third showcase in Houston
came to an end) Thank you so much (Thanking the MIDZY in Houston
once again for coming) During the last song "WANT IT" they all stood up and started cheering for us I was so grateful Thanks to that, we were able to
kick off our showcase with a bang (Yeji was touched by MIDZY's passion)
They sang and danced with us They danced along and they were so good! (Before the performance)
They played a video of our songs And they sang along to all of them So I was grateful for that as well (Trying to express her gratitude)
I'll also do my best in the meet-and-greet (♥ A relay video message for MIDZY ♥)
Thank you, MIDZY Thank you MIDZY!
Bye! Have a good night MIDZY, bye~ Thank you for coming, MIDZY!
Have a good night! How are you? I'm great to be here Thank you so much (The third showcase in Houston
ended in success!) (Houston, on a plane to Washington)
We finished our showcase in Houston And we got on a plane to meet MIDZY in Washington But the plane won't take off - I think they don't want to let us go
- Yeah (ITZY, don't go...) We'll be back, Houston MIDZY is holding us back (Yeji and Lia are goofing around) My roommate for tonight Are we sharing a room? We're also sitting next to each other
on the plane I guess we'll be roomies in Washington We had such a lovely time in Houston
thanks to MIDZY I think we'll be taking off soon And I wanted to leave a short message
for MIDZY before the takeoff (♥ Thanks for everything,
MIDZY in Houston ♥) - Thank you so much
- Thank you Thank you
Bye-bye Houston Then shall we fly to Washington? (Next episode) (ITZY have landed safely in Washington,
the city of their fourth showcase) (And ITZY TOUR resumes!)
Welcome to Chaeryeong Tour I fell in love with Washington Why? I love the city view ♪ My mind is swaying ♪ It's swaying? (What kind of tour does Chaeryeong
have in store for them?) (And the last ITZY tour by Lia
is coming soon) Are you guys hungry? Yes! It's okay if you aren't hungry Because I am! Guess No way Is this your first time? (Check out Chaeryeong and Lia's tour
on TOURBOOK EP. 10!) 