*classic Domics opening* Why is it so hard to buy a jift for someone? Whether it's something you have to buy, or something you want to make, I find it difficult either way. Actually making a jift seems like much less stress because of the recipient will tend to appreciate the item more, since you put your heart into it. But I feel it's a little different with purchasing jifts. Like unless you're psychic, you have to develop this whole system to determine what item would be close to, if not perfect for your special people, or a person. And you can visibly see the stress in people's faces when they're shopping for others Ugh . . . I get stressed when I see their stress. I went to the mall the other day to get some food. Okay, FOOD. I wasn't even shopping, I was just hungry. I discovered that people are actually at the closest to committing a murder when their parking spot is in danger of being stolen. I entered a parking aisle and noticed a car was waiting for someone else to get out. And, so to speed up this process, and avoid a gridlock because I also noticed a few cars starting to pile up behind them. I stopped to let the parked car get out, and I guess the other driver thought I stopped there, so I could steal their spot, so they started violently honking at me Le sigh For me personally if you happen to get me a late jift, I'm perfectly okay with it O-Okay, I'll stop saying "jift" I- I just wanted to try and experiment. I- I could already feel some of you getting frustrated from all the way here in pre-production like What the-? Has DOM lived his whole life saying jift?! What an idiot! Okay. I'm sorry. Okay, bring it back, but yeah, if it gets to me it gets to me. I understand that deadlines are stressful, and I don't need to force myself into your schedule Just because I happen to be born at a certain time of the year and this applies for Christmas as well if you want to wait for those post holiday deals, go ahead. I'll wait. I mean can you imagine if gifts had a hard deadline? Hey, Dom sorry man, my wife just gave birth to our first child and I kinda wanted to be there for her entrance into the world. I hope you don't mind, but here you go. *sucks teeth* Uhh, what is this? Ginger : It's your present. Sorry. I know it's late. Well ginger pale. You see my birthday was yesterday Do you know what that means? It means today is yesterday's tomorrow. It is no longer the appropriate date to receive such a thing. Ginger : I'm sorry. Dom : You messed up man. Okay. Just just accept it, but you know what I'll take it anyway. As an early gift for next year just in case you feel I'm not important again! Even when you've known someone for years. Sometimes you still have to do these covert operations where you have to eavesdrop on their conversations or send a friend to bait them into saying what they actually want and then report back to you. Sometimes those answers come up in normal conversation, months in advance before the actual festivity, and if you're not taking notes Or if you don't have a good memory, then I guess that's unfortunate. Sometimes cryptocurrency is really affordable years in advance and if you're not willing to take the risk and investing then that's also unfortunate *weird Dom grunt *panzy Dom sobs* I could have been a millionaire And even after you find out what your recipient wants you're not sure if someone else has already planned on getting that item for them. And if they are you have to decide if you're willing to compete with them to give it first(?) What do you do?! I get that surprises are important. But is the risk worth potentially getting them something they don't want, or like, or already have? No, Dom. It's the thought that counts. Yeah, but uh. There has to be a margin of error with these things right? Like, we can't just start giving people toilet paper for Christmas. Actually toilet paper would be great. I'm running low and telling them Yeah, I thought about getting you a Tesla but, you know I can't afford it. Getting someone's clothing sizes a whole nother ordeal If you don't have access to their closet to get the Intel firsthand . . . You gotta risk guessing their size. But what if you haven't seen them in a while and you're not sure if they've grown, or shrunk, or died? That's what gift receipts are for. But, what if you ordered it from China and it already took four months to get here. Of course you can be upfront and just ask about these details from the actual recipient. But, I can't give that advice without sounding hypocritical since I'm the type to reply with, "Nothing" When people ask what I want for my birthday or Christmas And it's true most things that I need I'll probably just save up and purchase myself and anything that I want is probably too expensive to ask for as a gift. Well, Dom. What do you want? I want a house with a designated room for rhythm games. Also, how do you try and be consistent with gift budgets for people in the same householder group? You can't just be like, "Hey Mike. I know you've been eyeing that camera for a while . . . Well here you go, buddy! Hey, Ginger Pale, here's a fidget spinner. You obviously don't want to come off as if you like someone less than someone else. But, sometimes someone's wishlist just cost more than others. I try my best to balance it out, like if I got my sister a nice bag I'll probably get my other sister a bundle pack of smaller items that together equal a similar cost But I understand that unfortunately. This is a privilege for people with spending money. I guess during the season of gift-giving It's more work to have a lot of friends I mean, it's great to have many friends But each friend is pretty much a gift that you need to get because you don't want anyone to feel left out Or you can save time and money and leave everyone out and tell them not to get you anything as well. Either everyone wins or everyone loses. Take your pick. But I just want to point out that if someone gives you a gift and I mean, genuinely gives it like they don't want anything back. Then the transaction ends there. You were given something to keep and if you appreciate it then that's a bonus for the gifter You don't have to feel bad and try to return it just because you think it's too expensive Or you think you're undeserving of it if you feel guilty for not getting them something of equal value or not getting them anything at all don't be, it-  it was a gift. Not a trade. if it was a trade and the parameters of cost and value exchange would have been specified and agreed upon beforehand. Accept the gift it is yours to keep. And if they do try and make you feel bad, just just run before they have a chance to take it back Easy. 