Audio on, lights... exist. Am I in focus? Yeah, that will do. Take my glasses off because it can't be asked being bullied But now I can't see the viewfinder. Oh god. I look minging anyways win-win Alright lads welcome back to my channel if you are new here, my name is Tom Harlock And I do not have an intro, but I do have a god complex. And I will never apologize for it a list of other things that I will never apologize for includes but is not limited to Bullying you if you deserve, it saying things purely for attention and being sponsored by Skillshare now That's what I call a fuckin segue. Today's video is sponsored by Skillshare. Skillshare is an online learning community with over Some of you may know two weeks ago. I decided to butcher my own eyeballs by reading Lele pons book Well after I got over the trauma of that I decided that I needed a break physically mentally emotionally I just needed to get the fuck out of here. So I decided I'll take myself to Spain for a bit But now I'm back recharged motivated inspired and ready to take on the world Today's video appeared to me last night in a dream. It wasn't a dream. I was in bed alone Scrolling internet, and I came across this Instagram page I don't know how I got found it because I definitely was looking for it, but I don't think I've ever looked at page about this in my own entire life I'm actually embarrassed about the idea that this may have been my home page. It was called man quotes Honestly, it's like Rolex yacht and bitches dress up for the job You want not the job you have and shit like that is like well, I'm a bin man if I'm a bin man I want to be a lawyer. I'm not gonna wear my nice suit when I'm cleaning the bins but have some perspective. Two things I've noticed that most inspirational quotes dedicated to men have one they're in black and white Ladies you get you get to keep the color I'll sit over here in my grayscale land in my grayscale world with my black and white vision Because I am a man and I'm ins I'm here to get inspired. I'm not here to witness color The second thing is Jason Statham apparently is the ultimate man. Don't get me wrong I know he plays every man in every film where there needs to be a man Jason Statham is the man Starring Jason Statham as a man. So this account is called men's life Their goal is to inspire 50,000 people or you're not really reaching your goal line Who are you to give our advice to other people when you can't even reach a simple task like get 50,000 subscribers? And followers and shit. It's not hard. All right, you just have to be me I'm the writer of my own story and one day the whole world will read it Ted Kaczynski vibes Oh, I'm getting Unabomber vibes tell me that doesn't sound what the threat of a manifesto like Oh, I'm gonna write down everything I think is wrong with the world and I'm gonna commit a terrible act *holds up Lele Pons book* This is about this, isn't it your yesterday's Do not define you Got on a bit fucking Kate and Gerry McCann could have done with reading this the next day Popping up on the timeline. Oh Thank God for that cave yesterday does not define us we go back for another Pappas Yeah think we've got store credit should bring the kids. Nah, leave the kids they will be fine Yesterday doesn't define us. You know what I'm gonna do? Im gonna come over batter the shit out of ya I'm gonna steal all your possessions wait 24 hours turn around and say you know what? Yesterday Just doesn't define me. Hmm. What a way of absorbing yourself of all responsibility I fucking hate men if you are born poor it is not your fault But if you die poor it is your fault. Oh great we're having a go at dead people now, who is this fool? Listen up your breadline spirits. I'm not sure if anyone's out there. I don't need a sign It can't be asked with that kind of fear, Bloody Mary Bloody Mary, Bloody, Mary Hey, hey gal, just to let you know if you die poor it was your fault Don't haunt me if you surround yourself with five millionaires You will become the six Because I will be stealing from all five of those millionaires Just a little bit just enough like top me up that bracket. I want to be in the 1% respect your haters They are the only ones who think that you are better than them respect your haters. Okay? I let's say I've got a hater the lady who works in co-op sometime gives me a dodgy look when she has to manually approve My red bull at self-service checkout. So I'm gonna say the lady who works in co-op is my hater for this situation lady in co-op I need to respect you because you are the only one who thinks that I am better than them now This this gal is judging me for drinking 4 Red Bulls a day. She's like poor Tom your poor teeth crikey This guy's changed his life and in just ten old years just an entire decade The same way literally anyone can change their life in a decade. I in ten years from now I could be your lawyer getting you off from a civil suit I could be your essential oil dealer protecting your babies from autism If the pictograph didn't inspire you quite enough. There's a lovely inspirational quote to go underneath it I want to be respected enough in just life in just in just the community of life that I get given a TED talk I walk out with a little piece. I've got piece. Yeah, I can use a nail file Hello and welcome to my TED talk. My name is Tom Harlock And I'm here to say one thing The right woman her power in man life can change his life 180 o degree And that's all I have to say This has been my TED talk and then I have like smoke and stuff. I thought way too much into this. Am I stupid? No the answer to that hat is absolutely not am I an idiot? Hmm, but am I stupid? Absolutely fucking not. I know when I read in a sentence is I'm gonna put my glasses on double check this shit Yeah, I'm right. I knew I was right I'm never wrong apart from I am left-handed which means I'm part of a rare 10% that will die quicker But it does mean that I am more creative I'm a left-handed Virgo and that's why all of you want me dead and in your pants at the same time speaking of pants Crikey, you thinking I don't have an inspirational quote for that Where the fuck is my inspirational quote for that real men make girls panties wet not their eyes That's it. Men if you've. God, have you ever made a woman cry? Why are you better hope she was she was shedding tears out of her pussy as well Because if not, then you're not a real man Take your testosterone and fuck the fuck out of here hungry man reach for the book. It is a weapon What the fuck does that mean? my intelligence? are they saying intelligence is the key just say intelligence is the key Don't say the book is the weapon How is this a weapon unless I want to make the mass public blind then I would probably encourage them to read this But there is no way this can be used as a weapon be like fire and smoked up the obstacles that hold you back Am I short circuiting. firstly doesn't make sense. Secondly, the only place I like smokers in my lungs and I'm a crack pipe So next knock me down nine times, but I get up ten Absolutely, not. She hit me nine times. Yeah, liked I got knocked out nine times in a row I wouldn't I wouldn't get up for the 10 I would get the hint I am but I am not fit for this battle No, I'd probably do I might cry. I might cry to get myself out of the situation One thing I will not do is get up on the tenth time because I value my I care You want to know how I defuse situations or whatever nightclubs and this is the genuine God honest truth My favorite thing to do if two people are fighting I get right in the middle Cause a massive scene try and defuse their situation by bringing all the attention on to me then they get that anger They direct it towards me and I'm like go on if you want to punch me. It's absolutely fine You're gonna wake up tomorrow with one a broken hand to a criminal record and three a lawsuit because everything about me is insured for my teeth to my Forehead have you said I am a model. I am a model I have booked gigs I have planned Attendances and I will fucking sue you if you touch me works a treat every time I think it's something to do of the fact That I am a I'm a cheeky little bastard. I'm a charming little bastard, and I'm also I Am pretty good-looking. This is an inspirational quote for a man, but it's addressed to a woman so I think it's from for men to make themselves feel better because they think this is what women may be thinking about them now and it's just to give them a Little bit of a girl voice crack. Oh my god. That was beautiful. Imagine If a singing silent night and that happened everyone would gasp dear girls before you call a guy ugly. Just remember He doesn't wear makeup Probably does he probably wear, you know, does I saw him? I saw him checking out a BB cream think of feeling this fantasy. We all know men are shit, but Iike Need this much of a guidebook just to exist it's like the alpha male tutorial was like oh put on a belt it will make you feel like your trousers aren't gonna fall down Oh Crikey brush your teeth. And then your mouth. Once that won't taste like the fucking the aftermath of the Holocaust cyclone Be all up in those molars my main problem that I have with this kind of shit is they prey on a lot of vulnerable People I find I find that the only people who are gonna find this kind of shit actually Genuinely helpful in a way that they don't even realize is not helping them are people who are so low on self-esteem That they just have nothing else to turn to and to those people. If for any reason they end up in this video, please Actually, just get a therapist like this get a therapist Get a therapist. There are certain things in life that are not therapy one it is women Women women aren't your therapist. They're not paid to be here. listen to this mate Instagram quotes are not your lifeline. The only thing that these inspirational quotes have inspired me to do is Make my own inspirational quotes Well, if I'm gonna do this, I'm actually gonna have to commit aren't I, I'm gonna have to commit I'm gonna have to put a tracksuit on look like Jeffrey star don't I probably a bit more feminine But look like jeffree star nonetheless, okay this Means but I'm going to fuck it. I need a backdrop. I kind of have this book only backdrop Cunt Oh Massive cunt massive absolute fucking burden. Oh, this is so difficult. I could never be an inspiration or what Instagrammer and this is so like Taxing. Okay. Don't follow in my footsteps Because I walk into walls Always be the lion with the stripes and never forget where our Tiger comes from soldier if you get betrayed You keep on marching Even Jesus had a Judas Jesus now I need a fucking Outro I hope you guys enjoyed this video. It was just a little bit of fun I had a bit time off for my holiday And I just wanted to come back from something a little bit light a little bit easy a little bit breezy If you guys want any scary Halloween content, I'm about this far our way from putting my dick in a pumpkin So, please leave me at least one comment. That's like go on Tom do it Give us that spooky scary shit, and I will give it to you straight fucking way Also, if you notice that when I tuck my hair behind my ear I actually have something to tuck now I never had that before and I feel like I Just feel like the seasons are changing And I've got to get out of these tracks. Ooh, I'm sweating. Thanks for watching you guys. I love you. Bye 