[♪ INTRO] Raw eggs, black coffee, hot sauce -- I think it’s a rule somewhere that hangover
cures are 10% for the victim and 90% for the amusement
of their friends. Because, let’s be real, how could any of
this actually work? But there are things that proper doctors recommend to avoid or treat the symptoms of a hangover. Know your limits, stay hydrated, eat something
-- it’s mostly about using common sense before
you start drinking. But what about those thousands of “cures”
that people seem to tout? Well designing an experiment to study hangovers is quite the challenge, but it turns out that there
are a few treatments out there with some evidence
to back them up. We all experience hangovers differently. Your age, sex, your body composition can all
affect how your body metabolizes alcohol. Genetics play a role, too. Genes seem to contribute almost half of the
variability between people when it comes to hangover symptoms. Meaning you need to start with a diverse study
population to account for all these differences. What to give to test subjects can be complicated. Ethics boards frown on asking your participants
to binge drink, for one thing. And what, if anything, you mix in with the
alcohol can also have effects. Like, maybe lab number 1 studies pure vodka, lab number 2 adds a little cranberry juice. Suddenly, the chemistry is totally different
-- and that’s nothing next to what you’d
see out in the wild. This makes it hard to design a study that
can both be consistently replicated, and actually
mimics real-life drinking behavior. And don’t get us started on retrospective
studies instead of controlled trials. That would mean asking people to give accurate accounts of their drinking behavior. There’s a technical term that we’re worried
about here: it’s called “Recall bias”. All of this is to say that studying hangovers
is tricky. So even if the evidence for a given hangover
cure looks great in one study, it might not be
reproduced by different researchers with different methods. That all said, there do seem to be preventatives or treatments that could head off or treat
the worst symptoms, including some traditional tonics and everyday
foods. One small 2019 study asked hangover-sensitive
drinkers about certain nutrients in their diets. They were interested in nicotinic acid, which comes from eating a lot of whole grains
and mushrooms, and zinc, from foods like shellfish or legumes. And drinkers who reported consuming more of
those nutrients also reported less severe hangovers. But that’s not so much a treatment as a
thing that’s already in your diet. And another caveat -- this was, in fact, a
recall study. And most people don’t necessarily remember how much zinc they ate yesterday. As far as actual curatives, one thing that’s gotten some attention is red ginseng. A small study from 2014 found that having
men drink red ginseng relieved hangover symptoms compared
to a placebo. A 2017 review of a handful of published studies also suggested that red ginseng could work
as a treatment. It also cited evidence for a handful of other
items like Siberian ginseng, Korean pear juice, and KSS
formula, which is a traditional Chinese treatment that
includes ginger, tangerine pith, and brown sugar. None of those treatments relieved all hangover
symptoms, but they did seem to help some. We don’t yet know for certain how all these
treatments might work — more investigation is needed. But they might reduce the oxidative stress on the liver that leads to cell damage. Or they might counteract immunological changes that may happen when drinking, like the increased production of signaling molecules
that promote inflammation. They also might affect the actual enzymes the body uses to break down alcohol, like
alcohol dehydrogenase. There’s actually some preliminary support
for that last one too. A 2019 study looked at how over 50 types of
food, including fruits, vegetables, cereals, spices,
dairy products, as well as coffee and tea, affect the activity of those enzymes in a test tube. They found that some foods, like sweet lime
juice, seemed to enhance the activity of these enzymes, while others, like starfruit, seemed to decrease
the activity. The scientists ultimately came up with a concoction
of pear, sweet lime, and coconut water that enhanced
the activity of the enzymes in the lab. Though having an effect in a test tube is
a long way from actually doing anything in your body. They ran a variety of formulas by a panel
of tasters, who liked the pear/lime/coconut combo best. In the end, though, even if a hangover “cure”
is developed, it might not affect people’s drinking behavior
much. In 2017, researchers asked a small survey
of young people about how their drinking habits would change if they had access to a cure for hangovers. The vast majority of social drinkers said
they’d use such a product, but only a relatively small group — about
13% — said they’d drink more. Most people, the authors suggest, don’t
really consider hangovers when drinking, and don’t necessarily want
to get more drunk than they already do when they drink. What’s more, a 2016 study showed that the
severity of a hangover isn’t significantly correlated
to how much someone drinks, or even their highest blood
alcohol concentration. In the end, we definitely won’t stop you
from trying lime juice. We just can’t pinky promise it’ll work. Like we said, designing a hangover study is
hard. And because the methods vary so much, it’s difficult to compare results between
papers. But while the only 100% guaranteed way to
avoid a hangover is to not drink in the first place, there do seem to be options better than your
friend’s coffee-egg-chili pepper recipe. Or at least better tasting. And also like, just have an ibuprofen. Thanks for watching this episode of SciShow, [♪ OUTRO] 