 - I'm Coyote Peterson,
 this is Kate Bimrose.  And today we're gonna be
 exploring the Bolinas Lagoon,  a unique ecosystem that's
 part of the Greater Farallones    National Marine Sanctuary.    As the sun breaks through
   the morning clouds,    we slowly cross the harbor  and land on the
 shore of Kent Island.  Welcome to the Bolinas Lagoon,   an internationally
  recognized wetlands  that is perfectly
 tucked into the hills    of West Marin, California. This thousand acre tidal estuary  is a protected refuge,
 and home to a variety    of animal species.    Today I will be
   heading off trail    with lagoon restoration
   coordinator, Kate Bimrose.    Her field of expertise is
   environmental management.   And for the past five years, she's been working with the
Greater Farallones Association,    a non profit whose
   goal is to protect    the lagoon's native
   planet and animal species.   My goal is see what
  kind of animals   inhabit this island. And we didn't have to travel far  before we came across
 our first creature.    - [Kate] What have we got?   - [Coyote] Oh right
  there, look at that.    Oh, you know what that is,  that is a black widow. This is not a spider
you wanna get bitten by, that's for sure.  It's a big female right there. Got her.  - [Kate] Wow.  - Whew, and that's
 about as close as you would ever wanna get to
a black widow spider. One of the most
venomous spider species    here in the United States. So you guys are out
here all the time then,  picking plants, flipping logs,   and building piles of stuff. You know what you're also doing? Creating perfect habitat
for the black widow. - [Kate] Absolutely.
- [Coyote] My goodness-- - [Kate] I didn't realize that.   - That is one of the
  biggest female black widows I think I've ever seen. Look at the size of her abdomen.   I'm assuming you've
  never been bitten by one of these, right? - I've never been bitten by one. I've never even seen one
on the island, actually,    so this is a first for me.  - [Coyote] So this is
 a new find, all right.  - [Kate] It is, yeah. - [Coyote] Breaking ground here.   - [Kate] Absolutely. - This spider has no
interest in biting you.  The only reason it would bite   is to protect itself from
  getting squished and killed.   I love getting to
  explore uninhabited expanses of wilderness.    And as we moved
   across the island, we soon came upon signs  of one elusive little mammal. - So, one of the little
rodents we have out here    on Kent Island is the
   salt marsh harvest mouse,    which is actually endemic  to the San Francisco Bay Area.   They're so tiny
  though, what they do   is they kind of grab
  one of these stalks,    they pull it down,    and then they kind
   of bite it off,  and they eat the seeds inside.  So they end up leaving
 these little piles of match sticks around.    You can see where they've
   sort of been eating and getting their meals
before they bury down  into their tunnels and
 move to the next spot. - All right well, we'll
keep our eyes peeled,    and maybe we'll see one
   of these cute little mice.  All right, let's keep moving,    see what else we can find.   - [Kate] All right. - As we crested the
north end of the island, we eventually came upon a place  where the land meets the sea.   And there hunting
  along the shoreline    we were witness to
   hundreds of birds.   The Bolinas Lagoon is famous
  for being a stop over point  on the Pacific Flyway, which makes it a
perfect spot for birders    hoping to observe
   migrating species.  From gulls and terns,
 to egrets, cormorants,    pelicans, herons,   and one really cool
  looking sandpiper,  we saw more birds than
 we could ever present   in a single episode.   Moving back inland, we suddenly came across
Kate's archenemy, and the most notorious
invader of Kent Island.   What are we looking at here? - We're actually looking
at ice plant right here,   which is originally
  from South Africa.   - [Coyote] So this is an
  invasive species right here?  - [Kate] Yes, exactly. - [Coyote] That's too bad
'cause they are so cool looking.    I assume this is some sort
   of a succulent, right? - [Kate] Yeah, exactly.  And when you open it up here,    you can kinda take
   a look inside,  and it's sort of crystallized.    It almost looks like ice.    - [Coyote] Oh wow,
   it really does. - Yeah. Actually one of the
ways that we are getting  rid of this plant is
 by pumping salt water    onto the island 'cause
   these are salt intolerant. So when they soak up
all of that salt water,  they start to dry
 out, and the nutrients  run out of the plant.    And they go from
   this healthy green   to a more unhealthy
  red or yellow color.    And then they're
   easier to pull up    out of the ground.   - Kate spends the
  majority of her days  protecting Kent Island against
 the ever invasive ice plant. And while we could have
battled these invaders forever,   it was time to
  continue our search for animal inhabitants,  where I finally found
 and managed to capture   exactly what I had
  been chasing after.  I got a mouse, I got a mouse.   Ah, hold on.  I gotta get him by the
 scruff of his neck, gotta be as gentle as possible. OK, what you're looking at there is the salt marsh harvest mouse.    I have been trying
   all day to capture    one of these little mice.   And these are the
  ones that are making   the little piles of
  match sticks, right?    - [Kate] They sure
   are, absolutely.  - [Coyote] Now, they're
 actually helping the ecosystem    because they're
   distributing seeds, right?   - Correct, and they're also
  a really great food source  for some of the land and bird
 species we have out here. - I've got a gentle hold
on the back of his neck, just by the scruff,
which is the safest way   to hold this mouse.   Not causing him any injury,    just gonna enjoy his
   company for a minute here,  and then let him back
 off into the wild.   Look at his pudgy
  little belly there.  You see they've got a real
 short little tail for a mouse. At first I thought it was a vole   until I actually
  got my hands on him.    Got these nice
   springy back feet,  and they are incredibly quick.   And they have burrow systems all over the island, don't they?   - [Kate] Absolutely. - Every board or log
that we have flipped up   looking for creatures has
  had a burrow underneath it.  So these mice are pretty much
 running the show around here.   - Yeah, absolutely. So, they're a protected species.    And we're really lucky
   that we caught one today. And like Coyote said, they
have a whole system of tunnels, so as soon as they see
some sort of a predator, they're outta there in a flash. - All right, we're gonna
let this little guy go back off into the
wild so he can continue   distributing seeds
  here in the lagoon.    Wow Kate, what an
   awesome adventure.   Thank you so much
  for having us today    out in the Bolinas Lagoon.   We saw some great creatures  and learned all
 about this ecosystem.  I'm Coyote Peterson, be brave, stay wild, we'll see you
on the next adventure.  The protection and restoration
 of the Bolinas Lagoon  is an ongoing effort.   And if it wasn't
  for environmental
  activists like Kate  and organizations such as the Greater Farallones Association, these beautiful
ecosystems would be lost from the world forever.  To get involved, make
 sure to visit the  Greater Farallones Association
 website, www.farallones.org.  If you enjoyed this adventure,    make sure to check out
   the time I helped stamped northern elephant seals.   And don't forget, subscribe
  to join me and the crew    on this season of
   Breaking Trail. 