My  name is Colin Furze and i am digging a secret
underground tunnel from my shed to my house and then hopefully to my underground bunker
at the bottom of my garden. Now so far we have dug nearly four meters down and we have
tunneled nearly six and a half meters across but we're not quite at the house yet, and
we're nowhere near the bunker. But what we do want to do is kind of finish this bit off
and make it safe. We don't want to be seeing rock. We don't want all these uneven floors.
No, we want it to look perfect like the entrance to my underground bunker. So we've got to
build a tunnel within this tunnel and surround it in concrete. That's what this video is
about. Hope you enjoy... SUBSCRIBE!! It's a lovely thing to do! Enjoy the ride! okie doke that's got the first bit down. Now
this bit that we've plasma cut out in the middle, this is so when the concrete comes
down the side, if it doesn't quite sink under it properly, because it didn't do in the bunker,
we can put our arm under and kind of help scoop it along. Or of course we could just fill it up from
the middle here and then push it all out so it's nice and solid. Now to keep it level
we've basically welded these little tags here on our supporting frame, and then we put little
posts underneath it to give it a little bit more support. We've had to concentrate on
trying to get the thing in line with the hole at the top and our hole that we've dug isn't
quite straight, but i can live with that. So next bit's going to come down, we've got
some little tabs welded on here that it can sit onto So get that bit out and then just,
just keep doing it basically! Right got two bits of floor down now and we
put this 50 mil box section here, basically we put kingspan insulation in between this
and then the floorboards over the top of it. A little bit of insulation keeps it nice and
toasty. So that's done that. The third one's ready to go down and then we'll put a fourth
one down, and then we'll start putting some walls up and hopefully the dusty jobs are
nearly over with. I got absolutely covered in it yesterday. Here we are. It's a new day people, we've
had a dust down, we're a bit clearer. Right floor is down, floor is level, floor is done.
There's a little extra feature look over here... I've put this little extra bit in, because
we're going to house our hydraulic pump there, so we can basically be in here all the time
and then when we want to do the next bit, we're not dragging it around on a piece of
wood like we were last time. It's all plumbed in the hydraulic lines and
can kind of run under the carpe, then we can get on with it. Right next up, exciting part!
Put some walls up, cut some noggins and just make it feel a little bit more like a tunnel.
Colin how can this not feel like a tunnel now?! If anything this is more tunnel like
because you can see rock, shut up, just shut up and get on with it! Got a bit of wall! okay that's got one side
up. But one advantage we have got with down  here, is because we've got this steel frame, we've
welded some tabs like to the frame and to the back of the wall. So the whole thing is
like completely solid even though it's just fixed down the bottom here. So next up, get
another load of sheets down for the other side, and then start thinking about curves
and the bit that goes up to the workshop. boom! And now it's time for our sponsor, where you
can win £500. in shares and I make a weird okay both sides of the walls are all done.
We've got our little fireplace dog kennel area down here where we're going to sit the
pump. Now we've got to plasma cut the top edge of this so it's all nice and straight,
so we can now sink the arches onto the top and that created so much smoke... we've lost another budgie! Right next bit
we've got to do the sides up to the surface. So of course we've took the steps out, i'm
still down here, we're struggling to lift it out. I really have  worked myself into
a bit of a hole! whey! Starting to look pretty cool now. So
we've got the shaft steel up, we've plasma cutted the arch out. now all we need to do is uh slip roll loads
of support, bend the steel around, like weld it all up, get it all sorted and then we're
kind of nearly there. It's just, it's just connecting the bit up there to the shed floor,
and then we're done. okay slight er, slight oversight and our little,
little bits that were bracing the wall, a bit of metals now touching them. Got to curt
a bit out of that. Look at this... look at it! Right it's not
fully welded up. I've gotta go around all the seams and stuff like that, but it's all
tacked together. Next job, we've basically got to connect this up to the shed floor,
but before we do that we've got to disk cut. this current, like, hatch or whatever you
call it, all the way out, take it out, build it up, level with the floor, and then we can
backfill it with concrete around the whole thing. yes! Of course the electric cables there innit?! Tom: did you film that? Colin: Yeah! Tom:
we've cut through the electric cables! Colin: look at that. Straight down the middle
of the cable. whoops! Thank you Tom! Tom: thank you, don't forget to follow me on instagram!
We've got a proper rim. We've got all the bits and bars all set up, and of course we've
got the first part of our lid. Next up is the concrete. Pour it all down the outside
here and start to finish the whole thing off and stop it sounding like a blooming drum! Here it all comes look! How cool is this! So we've got a steel liner
down and we've covered it in concrete, but of course we're nowhere near finished yet.
We've got to put all furnishings in it, carpets, the lights have got to go up properly, but
i'm not going to do that until it's actually connected to the house, and of course there
is a little way to go before we do that. Now some people are probably thinking when you
poured the concrete down, wouldn't it just bellow out the edges? Well basically we got
some of the spare insulation from under the floor, wedged that in the outside and kind
of packed it all in, stuffed it all in, so when the concrete came down it kind of bunded
up against it and now it's gone off we can take that off, and then when we do the next
bit we can kind of knock into it, put some anchor points in and it'll all key together,
and then it'll be like one solid piece basically. Now some people have asked about temperature,
how hot is it down here? For the most time while we were digging and building this, it
was a lot cooler down here than what it up in the shed, but while the concrete was going
off, because that's a chemical reaction, it causes a bit of heat. It's like an oven. As
you can see from this thermal imaging camera. The walls were absolutely roasted and it was
generally boiling down here. Now that's kind of subsided, that's all good. Now of course
we've got carpets to put down, we've got the electrics to put in properly. At the moment
there's like a little pipe which we kind of put into the walls in the concrete so we can
just stuff cables down at some point that will get connected into the house electrics
properly, and all done and dusted. But we're not there yet we've got a lot more to do.
Now as for ventilation, while we were doing this, you probably didn't notice it that much
on the video, but there was a massive fan at the top blowing air down here all the time,
because obviously if you welding and digging you do need a fresh supply of air. We also
had a bouncy castle blower, and extreme times we'd give it a complete belt out, because
that was like mega noisy. We didn't really use that that much. Now up the top the carpet,
oh it was heart-wrenching! I've had to get rid of all the three lower levels of carpet.
They were absolutely destroyed but there were so many marks on them which like, tell a story;
there's like a massive oil splodge where the screw tank leaked, (the carpet's ruined) there's
a burnout mark where i brought the superbike in to make the hundred mile an hour dodgem,
all these other little marks from other little projects. But unfortunately we've completely
wrecked it. They have to go. Now, next stage, we need to go towards the house more. There
is probably the same amount to do again but in that direction and then up into the pantry.
Now i'm gonna have a few weeks off because i've been working down here for about two
and a half months solid, and i think i need some sunlight in my life. So i'm gonna have
a go at some other projects, there's my drift quad, which i need to finish and various other
things. Stay tuned, SUBSCRIBE, put your notifications on! This is by no means of course the last
you will see this. There is so much more work to do. We've got the hydraulics to fit down
here, and we've just got to get better at tunneling and maybe, maybe a little mine cart
would be pretty cool wouldn't it! Right see in the next one! 