Betelgeuse is a super interesting star. Not only does it have an incredible name,
but it’s one of the closest red supergiants to us, meaning that while it is cooler than
the majority of star types, it has an enormous diameter. If it was the star in our Solar System, everything
up until the asteroid belt would be contained within it. It’s about 700 ly away from us, a lot further
away than most other visible stars, but because it is so large, it’s the 10th brightest
star to the naked eye in the sky, and brightest in the near infrared. It easily visible as the left shoulder of
Orion. If you do look for it in the night sky, it
is also visibly redder than any of the surrounding stars, and it does a lot of twinkling. There’s something else very special about
Betelgeuse. It is likely to explode in a supernova at
any moment, although I say that in astronomical timescales, that means it could still take
100,000 years. How do we know that? Well, you see, large mass main sequence stars,
or stars in the adulthood phase of their existence, are powered by the nuclear fusion that goes
on within their core, converting hydrogen to helium. This fusion creates an internal pressure,
which combats the effects of gravity wanting to compress the star into a smaller volume. However, eventually the hydrogen fuel in the
core will run out, having been converted to helium, meaning the fusion process stops and
the star’s core can’t overcome the effects of gravity anymore. The core compresses, but if the star is massive
enough, the compression will trigger fusion again, this time with the helium in the core
into heavier elements like carbon, with this process repeating for oxygen and neon. With every new fusion cycle, the star’s
internal pressure expands the diameter of the star until it begins the red supergiant
phase of its life, when the core is being converted predominately into iron. Red supergiants can’t fuse anything beyond
iron, so once the fusion stops, the star collapses completely into a supernova. And that’s where we are at with Betelgeuse
now, we are awaiting this final collapse. Whenever it does explode, it will eject its
atmosphere far into space, which will be visible in our sky for a good 2-3 months before it
dims again. It is far enough away that no harm will befall
us on Earth, but it will make quite the spectacle, perhaps being as bright as a full moon so
even visible during the day. Now, something else very interesting has been
going on with Betelgeuse. It’s been in the news a lot, like in 2009
when it contracted in size by 15%. You may have also heard this last year that
Betelgeuse has been dimming, and scientists didn’t really know why. Speculations were running rampant that this
could be a precursor to this promised supernova, although perhaps sadly, this is likely not
the case. New data from the Hubble Space telescope has
shown that the star itself may not really be dimming, but rather that some dust which
was ejected by the star may have cooled and obscured the view. In September 2019, Hubble saw heated material
moving away from the star’s atmosphere. Over the course of the next few months, this
material was observed near the star. By December, the star began dimming in its
southern hemisphere. It is theorised that heated carbon was in
the outflow, and as it moved around the star, it expanded which cooled it down. When we lost sight of it, it didn’t move
away from the star, but rather crossed over our view of Betelgeuse. At its peak, Betelgeuse was two-thirds dimmer
than normal, however, since April 2020, Betelgeuse has actually returned to its normal brightness,
so this cloud has either moved out the way or totally dispersed. So maybe this wasn’t the exciting conclusion
to this story you were looking for. Probably no supernovas for a while yet. But maybe that’s a good thing, because after
the event, Betelgeuse will no longer be visible! So, next time you have a clear night, find
Orion in the sky, and have a new appreciation for the red twinkly star of Betelgeuse. Thanks for watching! Looking for some amazing space merchandise? Astrum has teamed up with Displate who produce
amazing posters printed on metal sheets. I’m currently enjoying my Milky Way prints
above my desk right now! Click the link in the description for a selection
of my favourite images, and to get 20% off everything in the store. A big thanks as well to my patrons and members
for supporting the channel. If you want to support too and get access
to exclusive perks, find the link in the description. All the best and see you next time. 