- It seems like more
and more physical media is getting overtaken
by digital substitutes, affecting everything from game
downloads to event tickets, leaving some folks nostalgic for the days when you could enjoy the smell
of a freshly unwrapped CD. (inhales) Did that ever smell good? And yet another piece of tech
that could be going that way is the humble SIM card. You probably know what they
are, but in case you don't, they're those little chips
that go into your phone to allow you to connect
to a cellular network. Their function is to identify who you are to your mobile provider so that they know you're not some outsider
trying to randomly use their network for free. You can learn more about
SIM cards right up here, but once you're done, come
on back because this episode is all about their virtual
successor, the eSIM. A lot of phone manufacturers
are interested in moving to the eSIM, and in fact, a
number of flagship devices already have them,
including newer iPhones, Samsung Galaxy devices,
and Google's Pixel lineup. But why are we bothering to change? The biggest reason is flexibility. With traditional SIM cards,
getting a new phone plan meant that you needed to physically go and pickup a card
somewhere, and then fiddle with that stupid little
tray on your phone. And God help you if you lose
that pokey SIM removal tool. ESIMs instead can be
delivered over the air by dialing a designated phone
number from your provider, scanning a QR code, or using an app, making things a lot easier
for frequent travelers who might need to get
on a different network when they're traveling internationally. It also looks like more
phones will feature both, eSIM and traditional SIM
support, and many eSIM devices will support storing more
than one SIM code at a time. This means it'll be a lot easier to simply add a traveler SIM to your plan when you're abroad, instead of having to deal with finicky roaming when ya land, you can just buy an eSIM before your trip and ensure your connected at all times. I mean, other than
while you're in the air. You can also easily use your business and personal phone plans
on the same device. Your boss will like that. Or even have completely
separate voice and data plans if you find a better deal or faster speeds with another provider. That's pretty sweet. But eSIMs could end up
having greater benefits than just making your phone
a bit more convenient to use. Although physical SIM
cards aren't all that big, the card slots in our devices
are still bulky enough to take up valuable space, a
big problem in small gadgets. ESIMS, which obviously don't
require that extra slot, could increase the
adoption of smaller devices like in net of things gadgets, or smartwatches that don't
have to rely on a phone to connect to a cell network. And importantly, eSIM
technology has the blessing of the GSMA, meaning major
cell carriers are backing it. So, it really looks like it's
gonna be a question of when it becomes widespread, as opposed to if. However, don't be surprised
if your next phone doesn't support it, especially
if you're not buying a top-end device. Although the benefits of eSIM are coming, people trying to use it
currently have remarked that in many cases you still
have to go into a store to buy an eSIM QR code. And moving an eSIM subscription
to a different device can be at least for the
time being, more complicated than just swapping out a physical card. And speaking of physical cards, there is some concern that eSIM, because it can be pushed over the air, is more susceptible to social
engineering type attacks than traditional SIMs are,
though there are some backstops already in place to help us
keep that from happening. And there's a chance that
eSIM could improve security by making it easier to
track a stolen phone, and harder to sell one since
you can't just yank out a card. And of course, it takes time and money for the cell carriers to
transition the current systems over to eSIM to make it easier to use, but hopefully it'll happen before too long as I'm pretty bad at losing
small, removable objects between my couch cushions. I have so many cushions, there's cracks, there's so many cracks. Cracks for days. So thanks to Brilliant
for sponsoring this video. Brilliant's mission is
to help people achieve their learning goals, so
whether you're a student, a professional brushing up,
or someone who just wants to understand the world better, you should check out Brilliant. Interested in setting a
goal to improve yourself a little bit every day? Well, Brilliant makes that easy with interactive
explorations and a mobile app that you can use on the go. Check out their Calculus
in a Nutshell course where Brilliant uses visual
and physical intuition to present the major pillars of calculus, the language of change used
be colleges, urban planners, and physicists to describe our world. Brilliant's thought-provoking
math, science, and computer science content
helps guide you to mastery by taking complex concepts
and breaking them up into bite-sized, understandable chunks. The first 200 people to head
to brilliant.com/technquickie will get 20% off their
annual premium subscription. 