There's a famous scene in the Lord of the
Rings where the elf Legolas claims to be able to count the exact number of horsemen 5 leagues
away, and on top of that can tell that their leader is very tall. But even with the most
perfect eyes possible, would anyone be able to see that far? When we see, we're looking at light that's
traveled outwards from a light source, bounced off an object, passed through the lens in
the eye, and been focused into an image on the retina. Except... light isn't a particle
traveling in perfectly straight lines - it is a wave. And therein lies the problem, both
for us, and for Legolas. Because any wave - whether water, sound or
light - that travels through a small opening will become spread out by a process known
as diffraction, which for light, essentially blurs the image. You can see this with a telephoto camera lens
where the camera aperture has been made very very small - small details in the photograph
start to become spread out, blurred, and even indistinguishable! Or, if you hold the edge
of a piece of paper in front of your eye and try to read past it, small words will become
blurry! The blur that a small point of light spreads
out to become is called an Airy disk, and the size of the Airy disk for distant tiny
objects depends only on the wavelength of light in question and the size of the opening
you're looking through. So for visible sunlight and a human-sized pupil, diffraction limits
us to at best be able to distinguish objects that are bigger than seven one-thousandths
of a degree, for example, an object one centimeter in size a hundred meters away,. Another way
of putting this is that everything 100m away and smaller than 1cm gets blurred so that
it appears to be about 1cm in size, no matter how small it really is - subtle details smaller
than 1cm blur away. So when Legolas, who has very human-sized
pupils, looked at the riders of Rohan 24 km away, diffraction tells us that everything
smaller than 3 METERS would have been blurred to about three meters in size - perhaps he
could still count the number of horsemen, but he definitely couldn't distinguish their
heights to within a few centimeters... Unless Legolas could see in ultraviolet. Shorter
wavelength light diffracts less, so if he could see in the extreme UV, then he'd be
able to distinguish objects 10 cm in size, almost enough to discern the height of a man. Except that pretty much any kind of air absorbs
extreme UV light - so even if he could see UV, Legolas would have been left in the dark.
Or maybe it's just... magic. 