- This video is sponsored by NordPass. SpaceX Starship updates and Crew Dragon Demo Mission 2 is No Demo. (delightful music) My Name is Felix and I am
your host for today's episode of What about it. And today's episode is the last one before I do my trip to the United States to hopefully, check out some
Starships in Boca Chica, see some rocket launches
and meet up with you in Florida and Texas. And due to me not being
around, there most likely won't be a regular
episode until March 16th. I know that's a long time but
I will try to keep you updated with a lot of live streaming and recording for later episodes. So, checkout the channel regularly for some live stream
announcements and community posts and stay strong, I'll be back. And as always, there
has been a lot going on in the space industry lately,
so let's dive right in. Starship updates. As seen on the last episode, SpaceX right now is getting
the Starship prototype ready for my visit, as requested. Work is going on 24/7 to
polish it as much as possible before I inspect the work. And SpaceX right now is focused on getting the needed plumbing
and systems integration done on the finished tank section. Multiple crews are working
on the outside and the inside and it all very much reminds
me of what we saw with MK1. Cherry picker cranes on the outside and lots and lots of cables
going in through some cutouts signaling lots of activity
on the inside as well. SpaceX this time decided
against the famous manholes from the MK1 build and found another way of getting the workers
in and out, rabbit holes. They are lowering them down,
sitting inside special cages through the top dome with
one of the large cranes, a much better solution than
cutting holes into the hull that are not needed after the construction on
the inside is finished. As you can see here,
SpaceX has been very busy connecting the already installed systems and adding more to the
outside of the hull. Amongst pressure regulators, also sensors can be
found on the outside now and more and more composite
pressure vessels or COPVs can be found installed on the
Starship prototype as well. Amongst the more recent
additions, for example is this large COPV. This size could not be
found on MK1's hull. One of the possible reasons
for these large tanks could be that SpaceX has changed
the amount of RCS thrusters to be installed on SN1. It also seems that the pressure regulators are connected to a pipe coming
from the inside of the hull and also to the large COPV. Also the small COPVs
are connected to them. So, these definitely are now confirmed as pressure regulators. Sensor cables can be seen
connected to them as well by now, so they will most likely
have a direct link to the avionics of Starship SN1. All this shows again and again how quick SpaceX is
progressing with the project. And the large COPV mounted to the hull is not the only one spotted on site. SpaceX is mounting others
onto brackets close by. Where they want to put
these is not clear yet but the inside of the tank
section can be ruled out. These would simply be too large to fit through any available
access hole right now. Maybe inside the thrust section
would be a viable place. The outside of the hull
seems like an unlikely place as the frames seem to be
straight and not curved. Starship SN1 does seem
to need a lot more COPVs than MK1 did. In this picture by Mary, we
can see the lines going down from the pressure regulators. Do you see the seven
small pressure lines here? If we follow them from down
there all the way to the COPVs, you can see that some of the lines are connected directly to
the pressure regulators and some lead inside the hull. I would love to get some
pictures from inside. Elon, if you have the time
and it's not too secret, show us what's going on here. We'd love to get some more
details, well, as always. Also, very visible in this
picture are the cut out parts on the bottom ring segment. All around the hull, there are six of them and they look similarly placed as to where the leg mounts on MK1 were. So, these might be the spots
where we should rather soon now see some legs installed. First raceways as we saw them on MK1 are also being installed on Starship SN1. These most likely are for
autogenous pressurization again and there will be more coming soon. MK1 had many of these pipes
running along the hull. Here you can see one of the workers drilling yet another access hole for pipes into the first section's outer hull. A lot of these holes will be
needed in the coming days. Some of the hardware is
sticking out so much though that it makes me wonder if there will be any aerodynamic
cover over them in the end. This would produce quite the drag and would definitely be
less than optimal for sure. On later versions, most
of it will most likely be shifted to the inside of the hull. But what will SpaceX do about it for SN1? Will they just let it sit there like this? Overall progress is still lightning fast and SpaceX is pulling four
shifts around the clock to keep the progress at this high level. If any of the workers are watching this, tell your colleagues that
we all very much appreciate the dedication with
which you and your team are working on these
prototypes, at day, at night, in the rain and in the storm. Thank you, you rock. A new container protected area
is being prepared right now most likely, for concrete pouring work. If SpaceX wants to construct
these two prototypes at the same time, more
workspace is constantly needed. This might be a third large onion tent we are seeing in the early stages. How many more will SpaceX build? SpaceX has also been busy
finishing the construction on the High Bay formerly known
as Vertical Assembly Building or Windbreaker 2. The roof construction is almost done now and workers have lifted a
large metal beam on top of it. It will be interesting
to see what this is for. I'll keep you updated. And one more picture from
Gene from South Padre. Here you can see through
the door of the tent, where the nose cone is being
made, and it seems like SpaceX is making very
good progress here too. This looks like at least two parts have already been
stacked, maybe even three and including the top cap. So, let's put that picture
to good use right away. For all those who have not seen this yet, this is where we keep track
of the Starship build progress to visualize what's already done by now. This again, is where we left
off on the last episode. It's only missing four rings, but a lot of the nose segments
were still separate parts. This has already been
changed now as we saw so at least, the three top segments can be changed from separate segments into one solid piece
of shiny Starship hull. And on Tuesday then, SpaceX
moved the tank section to the launch site as predicted. Everything went smooth
as usual and as always, it was an impressive sight to see SpaceX move more test articles down
the road to the shoreline. These tanks sanctions are large and it especially becomes apparent when you see them on the road. As soon as it reached the launch site, SpaceX workers lifted it
up onto the launch mount and connected it. Then, work continued on the tank section. Meanwhile, Elon Musk was
active on Twitter again and told us that the SN1 tank is right now preparing for Raptor
attachment and static fire. So, this one will not just
undergo pressure testing, it will at least have an
engine test performed. He also said that the SN2 tank will start integration this
week with even higher quality. This is good news as the SN1 tank still looks far from perfect. He also confirmed what I
expected for a while now. SpaceX played around with
weld settings and due to that, in at least some parts of the hull, they used the wrong ones. They found the right settings now though, and are also working on a planisher to make the welds even more flat. He also gave a very good
clue to the question, if we will see SN1 fly. The answer is most likely, no. When asked if there were
still three Raptors planned, he replied with 3 on SN2. This indicates that SN1
will have less Raptors. One Raptor though most likely
won't be enough safety margin to lift a fully assembled
Starship prototype up. So, my guess is that SN1 will only undergo further pressure testing and a static fire with probably one Raptor. Last but not least, here are the latest
closure dates as of today. The upcoming dates for
February 29th to March 2nd are all set up in the night. All of them are long enough for pressure or static fire tests. So as soon as we see a Raptor
arrive at the launch site, we'll know if these dates
will only be a pressure test or if we might see a static fire instead. So, this is it, my last
update here on YouTube before my trip. And the next time I'm
uploading a regular episode, it might well be that we're looking at an
almost finished prototype. SpaceX, you rock. I will of course make sure
to stream out of Boca Chica if at all possible and I will upload tons and tons of pictures to my Twitter. So, this might be the right
moment to follow me there to get updates about Kennedy
Space Center, Boca Chica, rocket launches and of
course, my two meetups at Kennedy Space Center
and South Padre Island. Crew Dragon Demo Mission 2 is no demo. This one's probably a
very small news update, but I think it's still worth it. Demo Mission 2 might not
be a fitting name anymore. This is the name with
which SpaceX and NASA are referring to the upcoming
launch of a Crew Dragon with Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley onboard. It most likely will be before
Boeing can launch anything towards the ISS again and it
will be the first crewed launch from American soil since 2011. And all of the hardware
will come from SpaceX. Now initially, this mission
was planned as a demo flight. Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley
were planned to just go up, dock, have a brief
visit of up to two weeks and then head back down
to the planet again. A demonstration that
the system can perform and that Crew Dragon is a reliable option for transfer flights. On February 22nd, though,
the Johnson Space Center showed some pictures of
Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley training for the mission. Anyone who knows a thing
or two about ISS missions can see that this obviously,
is an EVA training they're going through right now. An extravehicular activity though, would never be planned for a
max two weeks duration mission unless Dragon needs some good
window cleaning of course. An EVA is a long term
planned mission normally and not something that's performed in such a short mission window. The solution to all of
this obviously is that, Doug and Bob will stay
longer and most likely, Crew Dragon will too. The reason for this can be
found in NASA's problems to staff the ISS. Sayuz right now is the only option and Russia has been raising
the price perceived, more and more lately
because they know that soon, America won't need to buy them anymore. So, why not use this first
flight to ease the problem of having to get personnel
up to the station? Once they are docked, they will
most likely stay much longer than what was initially planned. Hopefully soon, we'll
get a new mission outline from NASA and SpaceX and with
it, some official information on what exactly changed
for the two astronauts. So, Crew Dragon will
right from the beginning, be used for a full duration mission, even more exciting for us and a hell of a challenge for SpaceX. The capsule will have to prove
right on the first mission, that it can do more
than a simple demo run. I'm pretty confident though
that Crew Dragon can deliver. So, this wraps up today's
episode of What About It. Will SpaceX finish their build before I get there on March 6th, and is it a good idea to
use Crew Dragon right away for full fledged missions? As always, tell me in the comments. Welcome to the patron
shout out of Episode 76. This is where I think those
who go above and beyond to support me in my efforts to bring you the latest and greatest
about space and science. These people research for me, they check with me on the Discord and they give vital
funding, very much needed for the continued
operation of the channel. They're a very nice bunch of people and that's why they get a
thank you on each episode. And as always, there are
new members on the team, everyone, please give a warm
welcome to Jerry Geeraerts, Lucky Green, Martin Skov
Kristensen, Dan Babitch, Karol Szczecinski, Guillermo Jimenez and many others, you rock. Thank you for watching this
episode of What About It and now would be the appropriate time to hit the like button, subscribe and don't forget to hit the bell button to actually receive a
notification when I do my uploads. It's a version of support
that doesn't cost a penny and it does help me to produce
more and better content. And if you do want to spend your money, consider becoming a
patron and get insights into the production of What About It and chat with me on the Discord. Or you could buy yourself a new shirt on our merchandise store and look like me. There are plenty original
designs available in good quality for a low price made by a space
nerd for other space nerds. It all helps me to give
you the latest and greatest about space and science. I hope to see you on the
next episode, until then, have a great time. Starship updates. Prototype. I still believe though that, ♪ I still believe ♪ And it cannot be, (mumbles). Szczeciński, Szczeciński, Szczeciński. (growls) Whew. 