The north pole is the top of the earth, and
the south pole is the bottom, of course... except that the earth is kind of a ball, and
they don't really have tops and bottoms. Granted, the earth isn't exactly spherical
and it's spinning through space - spinning about an imaginary axis of rotation. One of the points where that axis goes through
the earth, right here in the arctic ocean, where the Russians planted their flag on the
sea floor in 2007, is called the north pole... or rather, it's the "geographic" north pole. Because, just like there are different definitions
for what a "year" is, there are different north poles. For example, compasses don't point to the
geographic, or spinning-top, north pole. They point to the MAGNETIC north pole, which
is incidentally a magnetic south pole since opposites attract. The magnetic north (actually south) pole and
south (actually north) pole are an electromagnet caused by swirling convection currents in
the earth's liquid iron outer core. These currents are heavily influenced by the
rotation of the earth, so the magnetic field they generate roughly aligns with the earth's
axis of rotation - but not precisely, and not unchangingly. A hundred years ago, the magnetic north pole
was located in northern canada - over 2000km south of the geographic north pole. And it's been moving consistently north-west
since then, currently sitting in the middle of the Arctic Ocean 450km south of the geographic
north pole, and drifting about 55 kilometers closer to Russia each year. What's more, the magnetic south pole is not
on the exact opposite side of the earth from the magnetic north pole - it drifts around
in a somewhat independent fashion and is currently 20° closer to the equator than magnetic north! Such is the nature of magnetic fields generated
by confusingly swirly molten iron deep inside the earth. But if you imagined, instead, that there were
just a giant, perfect bar magnet inside the earth, then that perfect bar magnet would
point towards the GEO-magnetic north pole. Which is currently located in Ellesmere Island,
Nunavut, Canada. This pole, together with the geomagnetic south
pole which IS on the exact opposite side of the earth, represents the general, overall
trend of the earth's magnetic field, especially as it extends into space. So while it's not at all useful for compass
navigation on the earth's surface, it does heavily influence the paths of solar wind
particles that cause the aurora - that is, the northern lights. Beautiful. In short, the north pole's whereabouts depend
on what you care about. The earth spins like a top around the "geographic"
north pole, compasses point to the "magnetic" north pole (which is actually a magnetic south
pole), and the northern lights are strongest in a ring around the "geomagnetic" north pole
(also a magnetic south pole). All three north poles move, too - the magnetic
and geomagnetic poles change quite drastically, but even the geographic north pole moves up
to ten meters a year as the earth wobbles on its axis due to seasonal air pressure differences
across the globe, melting ice caps, and so on. Assuming that the Russians planted their flag
exactly at the geographic north pole in August 2007, not once since then has it been exactly
at the pole - it was as far as 12 meters away in 2009 and as close as 20 cm in 2010 - right
now it's about 3 and a half meters away. Basically, the earth is doing the biggest,
slowest, pole dance ever around the Russian flag. 