Have you ever visited Medieval Times the
restaurant? Now I love that place, it has everything I want. It has jousting,
hawking, little paper crowns, everything. But then my dinner comes, I see there's
tomato soup and corn. Both New World ingredients that just would not have
been period, but you know what I'm like okay no one else is saying anything so
I'm not gonna be THAT guy, but then I get my plate, and it's made of pewter. It's not
a period trencher, a piece of bread all food goes on to soak up the juices. It's a 
pewter plate, and I just lose it. I stand up, I flip the table, virgin pina coladas and Diet Coke everywhere, and I'm asked to never return to the castle in
Buena Park California. But I calm down, I come home, pour myself a glass of wine, and
make my own medieval trencher bread. This time
in Tasting History. Now there were all sorts of bread made
during the Middle Ages. You had your pain de mans which was your
fine white bread the most expensive, and then you had your horse bread which was
essentially made for horses. It was made of ground-up peas and old beans and
whatever you can sweep up off the floor. Then there was a bread called torte and
it was just above the horse bread. It was made of unbolted flour, basically the
whole grain of barley, or oat, or spelt, or any of those really expensive flours
that you'd get at Whole Foods today, it was the junk back then. And that was the
bread that was usually used to make trenchers. Now unfortunately because
baking bread was just so ubiquitous back in the day they didn't bother to write
down any recipes, so we have to rely on later recipes from the Renaissance and
the work of excellent culinary historians to have a guess at what
medieval bread was like. So with that caveat out there let's go ahead and make
a loaf of torte for this recipe. You'll need 250 grams of whole wheat flour,
preferably stone ground, and 250 grams of any other flour. I'm using 125 grams of
dark rye, and 125 of oat flour. Then add two and a half teaspoons or one packet
of dry yeast. Now I know what you're going to say "Max, dry yeast was not
available in the Middle Ages, and I know, but what they would have used is
leaveners - were either old dough which is sourdough which takes a long time to
make, and I have some but I don't want to waste it on bread that you're actually
not going to eat, or ale barm which is very hard to find and very expensive. So
I'm using active dry yeast, but I promise Scouts honor (I think this
is how we used to do it) I will make loaves with both ale barm, and old dough or
sourdough in the future and they will be delicious. So be on the lookout for that.
Now the only other ingredient that you'll need is two cups of warm water.
What you won't need is salt. Salt was very expensive in the Middle Ages, and
they weren't going to waste it on bread that you weren't gonna eat, so go ahead
and add your water into the flour and begin to knead now because of the types
of flour that we're using the kneading process takes forever. I mean it always
takes a long time, but this is really tough so go ahead and use a stand mixer.
I'm not gonna judge you, just like you didn't judge me for using the dry yeast
right now. Usually you knead the bread until you get the window pane, you know
you take up a little piece of dough until you can kind of see the light
through it. This is probably never going to get there, and that's okay because we
actually want it to stay dense we don't want a huge rise from this bread. So once
the dough has worked enough that it's not completely falling apart, put it into
a lightly oiled bowl and let it sit for about an hour. During that time it will
rise, but it's not going to double in size. It'll just get puffy on top and
that's good enough now. While you wait for the dough to rise it's the perfect
time to smash that Like button, and I will teach you a little bit about the
history of medieval trenchers. Trencher comes from the old French word "tranchir"
meaning to slice, because that's essentially what it is. It's just a slice
of bread that you're gonna put food onto to let it soak up the juices then once
you're done you can feed it to the dogs, or to the peasant. How'd you do?Whichever
is faster, but the history of trenchers goes back way before the Middle Ages.
Even in Virgil's "Aeneid", Aeneas is told the prophecy "Never shall you build your
promised city until the injury you did us by this slaughter has brought you to
a hunger so cruel that you gnaw your very tables." Later after a rather meager
feast he realized the prophecy had come true when he saw his men eating their
own trenchers. You don't eat trenchers unless you're a dog, or a peasant. Oh there you go
bringing class into the game. Now unless you were a king, or an earl or something
like that you didn't have an oven at your house. So how did you make the bread
for your trenchers, or the bread that you're going to eat? Sometimes people
went to communal ovens often called the Kings Oven but more
often than not like today you'd get your bread from a baker, and there were a lot
of bakers, and that created competition, and they didn't like competition.
So in 1266 the bakers of Coventry got together, and petitioned King Henry III to create what was essentially the OPEC of bread. It was called the Assize of
Bread and Ale it was a set of laws that remained virtually unchanged for 600
years until the Bread Acts of 1822 and 1836. Now the assize set the price of a
loaf of wastel, essentially the price of bread stayed the same no matter what
the price of wheat was, what changed was the size of the loaf. For example when a
quarter of wheat is sold at twelve pence than Wastel bread of a farthing, white
and well-baked shall weigh six pounds and sixteen shillings. But when the same
quarter of wheat is sold at eighteen pence than a loaf should weigh three
pounds a shilling. Now you'll notice that because people didn't usually carry
around a standard set of weights they used coins as both the unit of worth and
the unit of weight. It's really confusing, it'd be like saying that this bottle of
wine costs 22 dollars six nickels and a penny but it needs to weigh 14 quarters
three dimes and seven nickels. Really makes you appreciate standard weights
and measurements doesn't it. Now like I said the bread is not going to double in
size, but after about an hour maybe an hour and a half depending on how warm it
is where you are, go ahead and dump the dough out onto your work surface and
knock out the air then shape it into a round loaf. Now again the dough is not
going to stretch like a normal dough so make sure you don't tear it as you form
your loaf. Then cover the loaf and let it rise for another 20 minutes while you
preheat the oven to 450 degrees Fahrenheit
with a baking sheet already inside. Once the loaf is puffed up a bit, score the
top with either a cross or a star and pop it into the oven for about 10
minutes at 450. Then drop the temperature to 375 for another 20 minutes until the
loaf is baked through. And there we have it a loaf of
bread ready to make into trenchers. Not so fast, you actually have to wait three
days or so because the loaf has to get stale.
Then you'll slice it and that is your trencher bread now all of the
ingredients and the recipe are listed in the description down below as well as
links to some of the flowers I used. If you end up making your own loaf, leave me
a comment down below and let me know how it goes.
Also if you have any recipes in mind that you want me to try out I'm always
looking for suggestions so make sure to Like. Subscribe if you haven't already
and I will see you next time on Tasting History. 