We take for granted having good enough hearing
to watch movies without having to read the subtitle “sound of leaves rustling” or
hear an oncoming vehicle before we step out into the street, but debilitating hearing
loss might be more common than you think. The World Health Organization in 2017 reported
that 360 million people – 5 percent of the world’s population – have disabling hearing
loss, and 32 million of these unfortunate people are children. As we age, our hearing often gets worse, with
a third of everyone on the planet over the age of 65 being affected by disabling hearing
loss. The WHO also states that while hearing loss
is often congenital, it can be acquired. 1.1 billion young people are potentially ruining
their hearing due to the loudness of their environment. Today we’ll discuss some of these noises,
in this episode of the Infographics Show, Loudest Things a Person Can Hear. Don’t forget to subscribe and click the
bell button so that you can be part of our Notification Squad. First let’s talk a little more about hearing
the softest sounds. Sound is measured in decibels, with low range
noise being things such as light rainfall, or as we mentioned in the intro, the rustling
of leaves. It’s thought such sounds range from 30-50
decibels. The sound of one of those rustling leaves
falling to the ground does make a sound, and is about 10 decibels, but that will be inaudible
most of the time. We may start to hear something like the hum
of a lightbulb if we listen carefully, and that is around 15 decibels. Whispering is said to be about 40 decibels
and normal talking about 60 decibels, although from our other shows you might find that depends
on which country you come from. An ambulance or police car flying down the
street with its siren blaring is very loud, about 125 decibels. This is the kind of sound that you don’t
want to be exposed to for too long as it could damage your hearing. It’s also about as loud as the loudest human
voice can scream or shout, something naughty children may have been exposed to once too
often. Guinness Records tells us the loudest ever
sports crowd were Kansas City Chiefs fans when they played the Seattle Seahawks in 2014. The crowd reached 142 decibels. It’s thought that at about 140 decibels
we will feel pain in our ears, and being exposed to that kind of sound too much will almost
definitely lead to some damage. Sounds of more than 150 decibels could rupture
your eardrum if you are close enough. Ok, so let’s now look at some of the loudest
things we can hear. We’ll start with the extreme, and move on
to regular day-to-day sounds. According to various sources, the loudest
thing that could have ever been heard while humans have inhabited the planet and recorded
events was the eruption of a volcano in 1883 on the island of Krakatoa, located between
Java and Sumatra in Indonesia. More than 35,000 people died, mostly because
of the tsunamis the eruption created. Tidal changes were even recorded as far away
as the English Channel. What’s also frightening is the noise this
eruption emitted, which was said to have ruptured the eardrums of people 25 miles away (40km). The sound was even heard in Perth, Western
Australia, which is 1,930 miles away (3,110 km), and some sources say it could be heard
even 3,000 miles (4,800 km) away. This is tantamount to something happening
in London and it being heard in Nigeria. Other sources state that if you were up to
100 miles (160 km) away, you would have heard a series of bangs measuring about 180 decibels. That’s a lot more ruptured eardrums. According to firearms websites, that’s quite
a bit louder than one of the loudest guns, the .44 Magnum revolver, which reaches about
164 decibels. Moving away from the noises of nature, let’s
now have a look at the loudest sounds created by humans. If you have listened to the stories of soldiers
who have been close to bombs going off, you’ll know that that can cause instant damage to
the ears, which for some soldiers of the past has led to ongoing problems such as tinnitus. The loudest of these explosions would be the
atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan. It’s thought these reached around 240 decibels. If, however, you were anywhere near those
bombs you probably wouldn’t be alive to tell the story, and damaged ears would be
the least of your problems. A 1-Ton TNT Bomb is thought to produce a sound
of around 210 decibels. Much smaller explosives are hand grenades,
and though there are many types, it’s thought most have a killing radius of about 2-3 meters
and a wounding radius of more than 15 meters. On top of that, they also have a bang of around
180 decibels, which US military training manuals state is enough to cause “deafness, tinnitus,
and inner ear disturbance”. Another of our manmade sounds is that of the
rocket launch. Of course you can’t stand very close to
a rocket when it’s taking off, but even at a distance it is very loud. The loudest ever rocket recorded was NASA's
Saturn V rocket, which was said to have reached around 205 decibels. It is perhaps worse on the ears than a bomb,
as the noise is constant for a while. Keeping with vehicles but looking at sports,
the loudest things we have are Top Fuel dragsters. These incredibly fast machines can produce
noise of up to 160 decibels. Dragsters, however, are no match for some
animals. Probably one of the scariest things you could
ever be up close to is the roar of a lion. In the wild that could very well be the last
thing you hear, a noise that reaches around 114 decibels. But the top two noisiest animals live in the
sea, and both are louder than the sound of a jet engine at just 100 feet (140-50 decibels). The loudest is the scream of the Pistol shrimp,
also known as the snapping shrimp. This strange underwater creature will snap
closed its large claw so hard it shoots jets of water. This forms bubbles which then implode and
create a noise of about 200 decibels. Because it’s underwater, humans wouldn’t
be affected by the noise, but other shrimp might want to get out of the way. The next loudest animal is the whistle of
the blue whale, which can reach 188 decibels and can be heard by other whales up to 497
miles (800km) away. But what about the dangers of noise in circumstances
we might come across on any given day? According to Gibson.com, the loudest band
in the history of rock concerts was Kiss, who when performing in Ottawa, Canada, in
2009 reached a peak of 136 decibels. Other bands that almost reached this noise
intensity include electronic outfit Leftfield, heavy metal band, Manowar, and British rockers
Led Zeppelin and Deep Purple. Not surprisingly, many musicians complain
of hearing loss and tinnitus. While most jobs ensure that your ears will
be protected in a noisy environment, these rock musicians likely didn’t wear earplugs
all the time. Other noisy work environments that do require
hearing safety measures include airport ground staff (140 decibels), Formula One drivers
(135 decibels), and construction workers (up to 120 decibels). Even nightclubs can get very loud and damage
the ears of party goers and staff. Most nightclubs will have sound systems that
generate sound at around 85 decibels – the safe limit according to most governments - but
some clubs will reach 115 decibels. Most people listening to devices such as iPods
will listen at around 85 decibels or less, but it is thought some devices will reach
100-115 decibels. At this level, doctors warn us that hearing
damage could occur after prolonged use. As a comparison, a chainsaw only reaches 110
decibels, and it wouldn’t seem very sensible to listen to that for a few hours. This year, Vice magazine reported on what
it called the loudest sound system in the world, something that if turned up could “melt
your face off and boil your organs.” It’s not a musical sound system per se,
but a generator of noise called the Large European Acoustic Facility. According to Vice, it creates noise in a chamber
to “simulate the environment that a spacecraft will come into contact with.” It reaches 154 decibels. So, what is the loudest thing you’ve ever
heard? Let us know in the comments! Also, be sure to check out our other video
called How Fast Can We Go! Thanks for watching, and, as always, don’t
forget to like, share, and subscribe. See you next time! 