- I thought the next big
thing in TVs was gonna be MicroLED, a technology with
all of the advantages of OLED and none of the downsides. It was gonna be sweet, but I was wrong. Samsung recently announced
that they are ceasing all LCD production by the end of
the year and investing eleven billion dollars in OLED,
but with quantum dots? Quantum dots don't go with
OLEDs, why would you even want that? Why didn't they do this already then? To learn more, we talked
to nanosys, a company that actually makes the majority
of the worlds quantom dots, who gave us absolutely fascinating
answers to all of these questions and more. Quantum dots can make OLEDs
better in three key ways, more accurate colors, higher
brightness, which is great for HDR, and wider viewing angles. Sound familiar? Great because that's exactly
the same benefits that quantum dots have been
bringing to LCDs for years now. But the way that Samsung's
going to use them on OLEDs is different from anything
that we've seen before. Look at this nanosys road
map for 2018, it's divided into three sections which
we can think of as present, near future, and not so near future. Here in the present, all
quantum dot displays are LCDs with quantum dot enhancement films. What Samsung's planning with
their QD display OLEDs is in the near future, second
half of 2021 to be exact, but COVID so. Then in the far future we've
got wacky microLED competitors that are neither LCD nor OLED, but we'll save that for later. To help us understand this
road map and the tech that could be in your next TV,
let's start with a quick primer on why quantum dots are
useful in the first place. - Quantum dots are molecule
sized spheres of nano semiconductor materials that
emit light if you provide them with energy and they
behave differently according to their size, so if you
shine a high energy photon like a blue light, at a
quantum dot that's seven nanometers wide, it'll glow red. Shine the light on a three
nanometer dot, and it'll glow green. The best part is nanosys
can vary their output in one nanometer steps. So they get to be really picky
about what color shines out. Blue? That's just what I wanted. - So quantum dots allow a
display to load true red or true green and that's not just an opinion. You can tell by looking at
the wave form of the light. For comparison, here is a
typical LCD back light unit, these lights don't actually
shine white, they shine blue. As you can see here. Then their treated with a
yag phosphor so that it all mixes into white, but you see
how narrow that blue light is? The industry uses a measure
called full width half max. It's the width of the wave
half way up it's amplitude. So our blue LED has a full
width half max of about twenty to thirty nanometers right here. The yag portion on the other
hand, well that is a big wide one hundred nanometer
mess containing contaminating colors like pink, orange, and teal. That's a problem. The white light from the
source then passes through color filters at the displays
sub pixels to separate the light into red, green, and blue. Now these filters themselves
have a pretty loose definition for each color, so
what ends up hitting your eye, inevitably goes through
this game of telephone. Garbage in, garbage out. But what if we made our
white light using a blue back light with red and green quantum dots? Well now, everything has a
full width half max of just thirty nanometers, then when
the color filters take say red, they only get red, not, you
know, orange or something. Now we get really accurate
output, something that's good enough for color professionals
in print or content creation or for a high quality
HDR monitor since HDR specs require wide color gamuts in
addition to very high contrast. But it kinda makes you wonder. If you start with pure red,
green, and blue, why do you even need the color filters? Ah ha, so this is the different
between phase one and phase two of the nanosys road map. The new quantum dot OLEDs that
Samsung's making don't use quantum dot enhancement films
like we've seen on every quantum dot display so far. Instead they have quantum
dot inkjet printed onto the panel substrate itself. These displays then don't
have color filters, they just have quantum dot color
conversion and the difference in wording there is deliberate. A filter stops all of the
colors of light that you don't want and keeps the color that
you do, but that's a waste of light and therefore energy. Conversion with quantum dots
takes all of the light and converts it into the desired
color with an efficiency or quantum yield, man that's
sci-fi marketing term if I ever saw one, greater than 95%. So with this new knowledge,
let's go back to the three ways that quantum dots will make OLEDs better. Number one, they will
have more accurate colors, because quantum dots have
slightly narrower full width half max's than the current OLED solution. Number two, the brightness
will be higher because more of the emitted light will
be allowed to pass through instead of being blocked. And number three, they will
have wider viewing angles because quantum dots are just
plain better at scattering light evenly in all directions
than the around 50 degrees that current OLEDs give you
before the colors turn to shift. So that's what's happening,
but why is it happening now? Samsung's been using quantum
dots and making the worlds best OLEDs screens for smart
phones for years now. I mean, didn't they already
have all the ingredients? Does anybody know why they
didn't just put them together? - Not really. Samsung's amoled phone
displays are RGB OLEDs, while the big screen TVs
that LG makes are WOLED. No one's been able to scale
RBG OLEDs beyond small screen sizes like this because
of manufacturing limitations. And Samsung's inexperience
making big screen OLEDs, means they have to play catch
up in terms of addressing geometry because the driver I
see on the edge of the display are so far away from the
pixels in the sender. - They also have to figure out
exactly how to make an OLED using a lone blue phosphor. Ideally the blue light
wouldn't have to be converted, avoiding any efficiency loss
at all but for that to happen it has to be the right blue, royal blue. and not aquamarine or
something dark and purply, which has been common in the past. It's difficult because unlike
quantum dots, these phosphors are complex, organic materials
that are doped with your opium and other rare earth
materials and you can't sort these millions of molecules
after the fact, you can only control the manufacturing. The rumor right now is that
Samsung will be targeting the DCIP3 color gamut using a
mix blue emitter without conversion. - Then there's the manufacturing
side, the color converting quantum dots have to be
imprinted onto the display substrate. That means that not only does
the inkjet printing for color filter in a large splays need
to be possible, which only happened recently, but the
quantum dots themselves need to be integrated into inks that
don't clog the inkjet nozzles, can be printed at open air
rather than in a vacuum, and can be cured using
standard manufacturing methods. Seems expensive, I'm not gonna throw it. - I personally cannot wait
to get my hands on these QD OLED displays so get
subscribed so you don't miss that. But what about that far future
section of the road map? Well this is where
things get really sci-fi. Quantum dot electro
luminescent or QDEL displays. Sounds kinda dumb but QLED
was already taken I guess, so door. Remember how quantum dots
shine when you put energy into them? Well that energy doesn't
have to be a shining light, you could power them with electricity. Here, the quantum dots
themselves would form the pixels, simplifying the technology
stack and because quantum dots aren't as sensitive as
OLEDs, they don't need to be manufactured in vacuum chambers
with walls as thick as a battleships. That enables manufacturing
that is so much simpler that it could reap other breakthroughs
like truly flexible substrates that can fold
entire radius' that we've seen so far or devices so cheap and
so thin that your wallpaper could be a display. That tech is actually in the
lab today with research by nanosys customers happening
all over the world. So then what are we waiting for? Well the limiting factor
right now is lifetime, particularly of the blue
and green quantum dots. The problem has to do with
non radiative recombination pathways. In layman's terms, if you
put energy into a device and not all of it turns into
light, the rest is either creating heat or breaking chemical bonds. That's a problem. Now nanosys thinks that we're
gonna get this sorted out within the next five years or so. So that would mean that the
first devices to hit the market would come in around 2025 to 2027. Not bad considering that
we're trying to understand these materials at the atomic scale. What's in your online security tool kit? Private internet access
let's you mask your ip and encrypts traffic to and from
your device and they've got reliable service with over
three thousand servers in more than 30 different countries. With PIA you've got no bandwidth caps, you've got configurable encryption, and an internet kill switch
to keep you in control of your connection and when
combined with private browsing, PIA can make even websites
that are pretty competent think that you are in a different country. Try it out risk free with
their 30 day money back guarantee and connect up to
five devices at once with clients for windows, macOS,
android IOS, and Linux. Their mace feature even blocks
requests to known malware and tracking domains altogether. We're gonna have it linked down below. So if you're wondering where
microLED fits into all of this, check out our video where we
explain why something called mass transfer is keeping
those from hitting the market on mass, it's a really good one. 