“A million girls
would kill for this job.” Emily Charlton of
The Devil Wears Prada is the textbook image
of the workaholic. She lives at the office,
and expects others to do the same. “You are chained
to that desk.” She cares about nothing
more than pleasing her boss. “Now we have to make sure
that they all think she knows exactly who they are. And
I've been studying for weeks.” On one level she’s a product
of the fashion industry, embodying its most toxic,
destructive standards. “I’m one stomach flu away
from my goal weight.” But back in 2006,
she also reflected a more general trend
that we’ve seen explode in the years since the movie. Modern American culture
has a love affair with working yourself to the bone. “Where have
you been?” “Sleeping.” [Laughing]
“What, all night?” Emily encapsulates
the valor and virtue we attach to constantly
being busy and overstretched. And her story reveals the dark
side of living to work -- Emily’s devotion to her job literally
starves her and nearly kills her. You might say Emily’s cautionary
tale prefigured today’s #ThankGodIt’sMonday culture. “We have medium-speed Wi-Fi,
draft beer on tap--” “Okay, what? Girl, I hope
I get to work here!” So to better understand
the Emilys of our times, we’re taking a deep look
at the history of workaholism in cinema and TV, and asking
whether it's possible to survive the rat race with your
sense of self in tact. “Thank god it’s Friday, right?.” to get 10% off
Better Help today. “I'm gonna work
until I'm 100 and then cut back
to four days a week. Oh, God. I'm already so bored
thinking about that one day off.” The term “workaholism”
dates back to 1971, when it was coined to describe: “the compulsion or
the uncontrollable need to work incessantly” Onscreen workaholics
cover a range of personalities, but they follow some
common patterns. The positive view of
the workaholic is someone driven
by pure passion. “This is gonna be so much fun!
All-night work! All-night work!” Often they’re in a high-powered,
high-stakes career, and their exhilarating job is framed
as the ultimate adrenaline rush. “That was such a high. l don't
know why anybody does drugs.” The darker interpretation of
the workaholic character is someone fueled by
cutthroat personal ambition, “Greed, for lack of
a better word, is good.” or who’s using their job
to fill a deeper emotional void. “She's a workaholic. Works frantically to avoid
dealing with her weird mix of lack of self-worth
and narcissism. I really like her.” Almost universally,
the workaholic character neglects
their personal life. “Hey, don't you
people ever sleep?” Don't any of you have
husbands, wives and kids, lives?” “No.” When you’re responsible for serious
matters, or even people’s lives, it’s easy to justify your job taking
precedence over everything else. “This is the most important
thing l'll ever do, Jenny. l have to do it well.” “lt's not more important
than your marriage.” “lt is more important than
my marriage right now.” But because they spend
all their time at the office, the workaholic struggles
to maintain relationships. “You can get me
a date for tonight. Actually, make
that three dates. Who knows when I'm gonna
get another night off?” Work is their mistress -- the
lover who always comes first. “Why don't you not go to work
tomorrow? Take the day off.” “Me not work?” We can see the origins
of today’s work culture in the second industrial revolution,
from about 1870 to 1914. With urbanization and
the rise of factories, for the first time people had to
organize their workday around hours of work completed
rather than sunlight. This led to the question of how
long a workday should be, and the danger of exploiting
workers through excessive hours. Labor unions campaigned
for an 8-hour workday, which evolved into what
we today call a 9-to-5 job. Early 20th-century
cinema classics like Metropolis and
Modern Times, reflected fears about
industrialization’s effects on society and alluded to
the risk of turning human beings into uniform cogs in a machine. “The Bellows Feeding Machine
will eliminate the lunch hour, increase your production,
and decrease your overhead.” The second half of
the 20th-century saw the birth of
the workplace sitcom. The Guardian’s Charles
Bramesco argues that “from the 70s through
the tail end of the 90s, the sitcom’s predominant attitude
toward the hassles of work was begrudging acceptance” “Christmas is just like any other
day when you work in a newsroom -- You know what I mean?” “Um, no.” “You gotta work
on Christmas.” “I've gotta work
on Christmas?” The 90s was the slacker era. “That's funny, because I haven't
seen you working for a while. A long while.” During this stable, prosperous
decade in America, onscreen characters seemed less
interested in work than ever. “I don't think my
boss likes me either.” “I don't think mine
likes me either.” “Maybe it's a universal thing.” “Or maybe it’s because
you're all hanging around here at 11:30 on
a Wednesday.” Meanwhile at the movie theater,
a narrative emerged of men rebelling against
their deadening, soul-crushing office jobs. “I don’t like my job and I don’t
think I’m going to go anymore.” These 90s films
captured a resentment over being made a cog in
the corporate machine, so you could see them
as a spiritual update to those early 20th
century films about the drudgery of factory work. Fast-forward to now and you’re
more likely to see people performing their love of work. "To do what you love, that
is just doing what you feel fulfilled by and
what drives you.” So what happened?
In short: the tech industry. New York Times
writer Erin Griffith argues that today’s work culture
comes from the fact that, starting around the new millennium,
tech companies began offering, “perks meant to help companies
attract the best talent and keep employees at their
desks longer.” “Google was just a little
startup like we are. And when they started bringing
in chefs and masseuses, we thought,
‘They're nuts!’” “And now they're
worth over $400 billion." We can see this practice at play
in The Devil Wears Prada, too. Sure, Andy gets to go
to Paris fashion week, raid the Runway closet,
and take home whatever expensive products her boss
doesn’t want for herself, “Miranda didn't want it, so--” “No, no, no, no, no.
This bag is, like, $1,900. I cannot take this from you.” but in the long run, wouldn’t
more vacation time or higher pay be
worth a lot more? “We get emails from you
at your office at 2:00 a.m. Your pay is terrible.” According to Griffith,
mainstream culture has been shaped by companies
like WeWork with, quote, “its brand of performative
workaholism.” "with WeWork you should
expect a space to make a life not
just a living" Our culture has created
a kind of glamour around working constantly. “Kirsten keeps a cot
in her office. Rick keeps a Tempur-Pedic
cot in his office. It’s like the Tesla of cots.” In 2006, Emily
was already completely sold on
performative workaholism. “I love my job, I love
my job. I love my job.” She’s brainwashing herself
into believing she loves her job, in order to make it through
another punishing day, and that raises the question: if our modern world
is full of Emilys, how many of us
are doing the same? “I already have
my dream job.” “You're a corporate
research analyst!” “Oh, you're right.
My job sucks.” To really understand
how Emily builds on the onscreen workaholic
trope, we can’t overlook that she’s a working woman -- a
subset of the workaholic character, who has her own
complicated history. “Sometimes I get concerned
about being a career woman. I get to thinking my job
is too important to me.” Across movies and TV,
we can see three basic “working girl” character
types, though they tend to have some overlap: One, the spunky, working
everywoman. This character type
was most famously embodied by Mary
Tyler Moore. Bramesco argues
that for Mary, “simply existing as a 30-year-old
single woman in a competitive and male-dominated
workplace counted as a win” "I'm working here in
the newsroom. Associate producer.
Can you believe that?" In an era where
many women still did not work
outside the home, there was a sense
of victory in being able to have a career
of your own. “Miss Olsen, you are now
a junior copywriter." "Is this really happening?” Viewers can see themselves in
the working everywoman character. "No lunch. I got
speech class." "What do you need speech
class for you talk fine.” We usually meet her
at the beginning of her working life,
which helps us connect to her
emotionally and feel her ups and
downs as our own. She inspires us by
representing work as a source of empowerment. [Singing] “You’re gonna
make it after all.” Two, the career woman
as cautionary tale. Unlike with the everywoman,
we’re often introduced to this character when she’s
well into her career and her commitment to her
job is no longer framed in such a flattering light. “Just because you have
no semblance of a life outside of this office,
you think that you can treat all of us like your
own personal slaves.” In fact, we could read
this trope as a cultural backlash to the young
everywoman. “This woman is
my secretary.” This is highlighted in
Working Girl, where Tess, a clear example of
our first character type, discovers that career woman
Katherine is a jaded villain trying to pass off Tess’
idea as her own. “She rifled through
my desk, found my memo outlining a Trask
radio acquisition and has been passing it
off as her idea." "It was my idea.” The career woman is
essentially the female version of the workaholic
absentee father who doesn’t spend time with his family. “Peter, you're missing it.” “Alright. I want a meeting,
tomorrow a.m.” “Dad, my game!
You promised.” And she often has to learn
to step back from her career and make room
for romantic love. "I've got a big day." "You've always got a big day.
Even on the weekends, you have a big day. You
can't let this job be your life.” This set-up makes her
a fixture of rom-coms. And three, the boss
superwoman. This high-powered woman
is killing it at her job, and her drive is portrayed as part
of what makes her fabulous. "I'm going to kick some ass,
and remind them that I'm fierce.” This character type took off in
the 2000s and is a staple of Shonda Rhimes shows. It may even borrow from real life,
as Rhimes’ success has made her into an aspirational figure
much like the women she creates, and she’s spoken positively
about being a workaholic. “I work a lot, very
hard, and I love it. When I am hard at work,
when I am deep in it, there is no other feeling. It is hitting every high note.
It is running a marathon. It is being Beyoncé.” In part, this character’s
fabulosity comes from the fact that she makes
her own money, which puts her in total control
of her own life. "You can't afford me.” The ladies of Sex and the City
prefigured this character type because the show
explored the power of financial independence
and not needing to rely on a man for economic support. "And with that, Ms. Miranda Hobbes
Esquire, a.k.a. ‘just me’ bought herself her first
apartment and promptly took herself out for a drink.” Interestingly, the three main
female characters of Devil Wears Prada
seem to fit neatly into these categories -- Andy is the spunky
working girl we root for “Well, look, you gotta start
somewhere, right?” and Miranda is the cautionary tale
who represents the danger of sacrificing your personal
life for a career, “Just imagine what they're
gonna write about me. The Dragon Lady,
career-obsessed.” and Emily is going
for category three: the utterly fabulous
existence of the high-powered
glamour workaholic. “I get to go with her to Paris
for Fashion Week in the fall. I get to wear couture. I go to all the shows
and all the parties. I meet all of
the designers. It's divine.” Except that, to
the outside viewer, Emily’s life hardly
appears that great. “Remember, you and
I have totally different jobs. I mean, you get coffee
and you run errands yet I am in charge
of her schedule, her appointments
and her expenses.” In Emily’s eyes, Miranda belongs
in superwoman category three, but the movie places her
firmly in villainous category two. “You chose to get ahead.
You want this life, those choices are necessary.” Emily is so enthralled
by the myth of Miranda that she looks
right past this, and that leaves her aspiring
towards an empty ideal. This reflects our
contemporary lives, too. “A woman. That
that's a minus.” “Well, of course it's a fucking
minus! I didn’t make the world.” We may be in an era where
powerful, hard-working women are lionized onscreen,
but society itself is not set up to reward
female workaholics. Even if a woman is doing
extremely well in her career, there’s still discomfort
around her success. “He offered it to me. To be next." "Because I thought that it was
something that we wanted for me.” Many heterosexual couples
are unwilling to reveal when a woman is the breadwinner. And Aliya Hamid Rao writes
for The Atlantic that “the more economically
dependent men are on their wives, the less
housework they do. In other words, women’s
success in the workplace is penalized at home.” So it’s clear that our
world has a long way to go before category three,
the working superwoman, becomes more than a fiction. Emily’s devotion to
her work rivals religiosity. Our modern day obsession
with work can be traced back to the Calvinist branch
of Protestantism. Sociologist Max Weber
wrote that because Calvinists believed
in predestination, they sought to be
successful in order to prove they were part
of “the elect” destined to go to heaven. Today it’s not hard to see how
the Calvinist idea of a “calling” has evolved into people
seeing their careers as representing their
life’s purpose. “I devote myself
completely to my job. It's what I do. It's all I am.” In a modern spin on
the Protestant Work Ethic, some have argued that
work has now effectively replaced religion
as the arena where Americans
seek meaning in our modern lives. “A lot of people have
essentially turned to work to find the very things they used
to seek from traditional religions: transcendence, meaning,
community, self-actualization, a totalizing purpose in life.” We may be using nonstop
work or busy-ness to fill a deeper existential void
as Tim Kreider writes, “obviously your life cannot
possibly be silly or trivial or meaningless if you are
so busy, completely booked, in demand every
hour of the day.” “I get 20 minutes for
lunch, and you get 15.” Worshiping at the altar
of work turns the ‘boss’ figure into a kind of deity. “She saved me,
she saved Huck, she saved Quinn,
she saved you.” “Boar on the floor!”
“I really I feel” “Get down!
Boar on the floor.” [Oinking noises]
[Laughing] [Screaming]
“I got it!” There’s perhaps no better
encapsulation of the boss-god than Emily’s worship of Miranda
Priestly as an almost mythical, superhuman being. “She’s the editor in chief of
Runway--not to mention a legend.” Many people turn to religion
to make sense of the world. But work wasn’t designed
to do such a thing -- as Derek Thompson
writes in The Atlantic, “The modern labor force
evolved to serve the needs of consumers and
capitalists, not to satisfy tens of millions of people
seeking transcendence at the office.” Thus, the root of the problem
is that we’re told to look for profound meaning in our
work in the first place. “And the only way to be
truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. And the only way to do great
work is to love what you do.” On the surface this may
seem like good advice -- ⅓ of your life is spent at work,
so ideally that time should be devoted to something you
care about and enjoy. But the constant pressure to
love your job sets people up to feel crushed when
it doesn’t unlock a deep sense of fulfillment. So just like Emily,
from time to time, many of us could stand
to be reminded that a job is just a job. “I hope you know that
this is a very difficult job, for which you
are totally wrong. And if you mess up, my head
is on the chopping block.” Emily is a model of what
not to do in your career. “You may never ask
Miranda anything.” It’s one thing to work
all the time because you genuinely
love what you do. “You're off work, Cristina.
Go enjoy your day.” “No, I'll enjoy my day if I can
help retrieve a heart, I promise.” But Emily never actually
seems happy at Runway. “So until she decides that
you are not a total psycho, I get the lovely task of
waiting around for the Book.” During her time there, she
sacrifices her sense of self, and self-respect, for the job. Under the pressure of her industry,
she goes on starvation diets, “You look so thin.” “Do I?”
“Yeah.” “Oh it’s for Paris, well
I’m on this new diet, it’s very effective.
Well, I don't eat anything. And then when I feel
like I'm about to faint, I eat a cube of cheese.” and comes to the office
even when she’s terribly sick. “How's the cold doing?” “Like death warmed up.” She gets hit by a car because
she’s so distracted running an errand for Miranda --
showing how her commitment to work is literally
putting her life at risk. And if she continues
on this road, like many an addict,
she will kill herself. This disregard for her
own well-being suggests that Emily doesn’t
really value herself. “What took you so long?
I have to pee!” “What? You haven't
peed since I left?” “No, I haven't.
I've been manning the desk, haven't I?
I'm bursting.” She’s internalized
the negativity that permeates Runway’s
workplace culture. “It's just Miranda wanted
some scarves from Hermes. And she did tell me yesterday,
but I forgot like an idiot.” And Emily is well on her way
to a problem facing many in the overstretched
millennial workforce: burnout. Buzzfeed’s Anne Helen
Petersen named millennials the burnout generation. "You deserve paid work." "I can't get paid work.
I just graduated from Cornell with a business
degree. That's the worst Ivy.” Thompson argues that this
is due to a combination of student debt, entering
the workforce post-recession, and the way social media has
heightened the pressure to present an image of
success to one’s peers. Meanwhile, instant
communication has made it so there is no clear
work/life divide anymore. “Andrea, Miranda decided to
kill the autumn jacket story for September and she is
pulling up the Sedona shoot from October. You need to come into
the office right this second and pick up her coffee
order on the way.” The romance around work
strategically glosses over the fact that being
a workaholic isn't a choice for most of us. “To jobs that pay the rent.”
“Yes.” “To jobs that pay the rent.” Our country’s policies
essentially force people to work a lot. We get little vacation
time, new parents aren’t guaranteed paid leave,
our healthcare system makes many people reliant
on their jobs for insurance, and even getting
welfare assistance usually requires proof
of employment. And a study by the Washington
Center for Equitable Growth found that because people’s
output can’t always be measured in a concrete
way, companies tend to “unconsciously use working
hours and ‘facetime’ as a way to estimate their employees’
productivity and commitment to their jobs.” “He's in here every night at
9:00. Every morning at 8:00.” But in the long-run,
workaholism doesn’t serve employers well either. People who are overworked
are less productive and more likely to make mistakes. “Oh, my God. I just can't
remember what his name is. I just saw his name this morning
on the list It's--Oh, I know this.” Even if you don’t care if
the rest of your life falls apart, you still shouldn’t be
like Emily because her non-stop-work style
doesn’t help her get ahead. How does Miranda show
her appreciation for the way Emily is killing herself
for this job? “Details of your incompetence
do not interest me.” She’s been at Runway
longer than Andy, but the new girl with no
experience overtakes her in less than a year
to become Miranda’s preferred assistant. “I need the best
possible team with me. That no longer
includes Emily.” After Miranda betrays
Emily by choosing Andy to accompany her to Paris,
Emily still returns to work for this person who clearly
does not value her. By the end, Andy is
pursuing her real dream of being a journalist,
while Emily hasn’t moved forward an inch. “You have some very
large shoes to fill. I hope you know that.” Employees need
to have boundaries, but Emily doesn’t have
Andy’s instinct to question conventions that seem
ridiculous and downright cruel. “One time an assistant
left the desk because she sliced her hand open
with a letter opener and Miranda missed Lagerfeld
just before he boarded a 17-hour flight to Australia.
She now works at TV Guide.” At a certain point if you
want your superiors’ respect, you need to assert yourself. “You're never going to get
that corner office until you start treating Don as an equal.” As we discussed in
our Miranda video, Andy’s show of self-respect
is what earns her a second look from Miranda
in the first place. “I'm smart, I learn fast,
and I will work very hard.” Meanwhile Emily’s
haughtiness towards Andy reveals that she
isn’t able to see past appearances to the deeper
qualities that an employer might value, like having
a unique voice and take on the world. “I mean, I have no idea
why Miranda hired her.” Career excellence requires
other qualities in addition to devotion and long hours. Emily plays too much
by the rules, she doesn’t invest in other areas
of her life, she loses her joy, and most
importantly, she doesn’t put herself before the job. “I refuse to be sick. I'm wearing Valentino,
for crying out loud.” She’s so fixated on
what’s required of her that she’s willing to
efface her identity. “You do not talk to anyone.
Do not look at anyone. This is of the utmost
Importance, you must be invisible.
Do you understand?” This makes her
a good assistant, as that’s a role that
requires supporting someone else’s career,
but workaholism alone will not make you
the next Miranda Priestly. “I love my job,
I love my job. I love my job,
I love my job, 