“To a night we’ll never remember” “Whatever happens here tonight,
may as well never happened at all.” The Hangover --
A simple comedy about a Vegas bachelor party
gone awry, or a dark Freudian parable
exposing the anguish of the modern man? “I’m still putting the broken pieces
of my psyche back together.” There’s an interesting subtext
to Todd Phillips’ movie, which turns 10 this year. “I want to talk about memory. No, better yet, I want to talk about selective memory.” The characters’ blackout is a metaphor
for repression. ”Torch it? Who are you?" "I don't know Phil,
apparently I'm a guy who marries complete strangers.” As Phil, Stu, and Alan
retrace their steps to piece together what happened the night before, they confront buried selves
that shock them. “Why, when I come after you guys,
he starts screaming like crazy and throw me in trunk?” “What, I did that?” And in the sequels, these guys can’t help
repeating this pattern. Something dark and wild
periodically resurfaces within them, however badly they want to escape it. “It happened again.” “Seriously what is wrong with you three?” So there’s a fascinating
cultural commentary hidden in these comedies. These men represent
a discontentment haunting the contemporary
American male, which may, in fact,
be impossible to cure. So here’s our take on what The Hangover
reveals about repression in today’s society
and why the Wolfpack’s inner demons will never go away. “This demon takes me to
some pretty weird places.” to get a full month of Mubi for free. When The Hangover starts,
the three main characters are dissatisfied in their
day-to-day lives. “You should enjoy yourself,
because come Sunday, you're gonna start dying
just a little bit every day.” Unable to face the scope
of their unhappiness, these guys unknowingly resort
to the defense mechanism of repression. Banishing distressing thoughts
and impulses to the unconscious mind, where we stop being aware
of them at all. It’s only when they get together
for Doug’s bachelor party in Vegas- the US’s symbolic epicenter
of pleasure-seeking -- that they allow the release of their long bottled-up ids. “Who does shit like that man?” “Someone who has
a lot of issues obviously. I’m a sick man.” In Freudian psychoanalysis,
the id is the instinctual, pleasure-seeking self --
our most basic drives, often expressed through
sex and violence. Crucially, the id is unconscious. As Freud wrote, “It is the dark, inaccessible part
of our personality.” So this is why the Wolfpacks’
deep instincts only come out when they’re drugged
and their usual, self-controlling mechanisms are disabled. All of the movies feature
wild animals that show up as a result their debauchery
which represent the primal, animal selves they've unleashed. It’s fitting that there are
three guys at the center of these movies because, broadly speaking,
they align with Freud’s concepts of the Superego, the Ego, and the Id. Stu corresponds to the superego, the psyche’s internalized
moral standards and ideals, which come from our parents
and our society. If the id is “I want,”
the superego is “I should.” “I was happy and my life was good. Getting married like a dentist should.” Stu’s obsession with the person
he “should” be is encapsulated in the way he believes
it’s not good enough to be a dentist and aspires to be a higher-status doctor. “I'm actually a doctor.” “Yeah, you said that
several times last night. But really, you're just a dentist.” He’s determined to marry Melissa,
even though he doesn’t like her, because he thinks
she’s a suitable partner and the length of their courtship
necessitates a proposal. “We’ve been dating for three years. It's time. This is how it works.” This relationship
forces him to lie all the time. “Told her we're two hours
outside of wine country, and she bought it.” But he doesn’t see this
as a problem, because he’s so used
to lying to himself. “She's strong-willed. And I respect that.” “Wow. Wow. He's in denial.” Stu’s long-term denial
and his overdeveloped superego lead him to display
almost a split personality. He’s a nerdy,
thoroughly vanilla guy in his conscious life. “Stu is do,
do is soft white rice in lukewarm water.” But under the influence
of drugs and alcohol, a whole other person surfaces. “This guy is the craziest,
wildest bastard I ever met in my life, man.” “Who, this guy?” His blackout lets him bond
with a woman who actually makes him happy. “I'll tell you one thing,
you look seriously happy here, man.” But in the light of day,
he declares her socially unacceptable. “I married a whore.” “How dare you she’s a nice lady.” When Stu starts to learn
about his other self, he tries to suppress it
back down into oblivion. “It's all evidence of a night
that never happened. That is why we're torching all of it.” At the end of the first movie,
he takes a big step forward when he releases the anger
he didn’t know was there. “I think in a healthy relationship
sometimes a guy should be able to do what he wants to do.” And admits to himself
that he’s not okay with Melissa’s infidelity. “Because whatever this is
ain’t working for me.” “Since when?” “Since you fucked that waiter
on your cruise last June. Boom!” Yet in The Hangover Part II
we see that he’s reverted to his old repressive techniques. “He was missing
that spark you look for in a man.” When the Wolfpack
has another blackout, yet again Stu is the one
who goes the wildest. And this is no coincidence --
because Stu is the most repressed of the Wolfpack, his dangerously pent-up id
is the most potent and in need of release. “I got a dark side. There’s a demon in me.” In all three blackouts only Stu goes so far
as to alter his body, in ways that can only be reversed
through surgery. -- It’s as if the wild id within him
is trying to leave a permanent mark that it was there. In the first movie, his willingness
to pull out his own tooth is an example of displacement,
or redirecting an aggressive impulse onto a new target. His real motivation
is to prove his worth as a doctor “Alan bet you that you weren't
a good enough dentist to pull out your own tooth.” But this comes out as an act
of self-harm, which gets at the way
that his obsession with living up to this doctor-ideal is hurting him. In part 2,
he has sex with a trans prostitute, despite having no inkling
of this desire in his conscious life. “It’s a violation of my moral code.” “Don’t be sad, Stu. You love it. You were crying saying how special it was.” And this behavior so shocks him
that Stu is finally motivated to accept his repressed self. “I have a weakness for prostitutes. All kinds, apparently.” He realizes that his inner darkness
has to be integrated into his life -- and he even seems empowered by it. “I wish I was a boring dentist
who had a boring life and boring friends...
but I don't, I'm not.” Even so,
Stu doesn’t tell the woman he’s marrying about his experience
with the prostitute. “It’s true he has semen in him.” “I said demon.” “But you also have semen in you,
remember?” “Not relevant but thank you Alan.” So he’s still lying
about his latent urges, because he feels the truth
would threaten his traditional, heterosexual marriage. In the credits of the third movie,
when he wakes up with breasts, it appears Stu has a buried desire
to experiment with his gender as well. But given his pattern,
he’ll likely repress this and continue to shock himself
with more and more extreme behavior during blackouts. The other irony of Stu’s story
is that the wife he rejected from their original night in Vegas
goes on to marry a surgeon. “Another doctor can you believe it?” “Another doctor.” Who was evidently secure enough to see past the stigma
of her profession, “Well technically I’m an escort
but stripping is a great way to meet the clients.” And appreciate the kind,
accepting person she is. Because Stu
is so uncomfortable with himself, he missed the opportunity to be with someone
who made him feel completely un-self-conscious and uninhibited. Alan is most closely aligned
with the id. He is pure instinct,
with no filter or self-consciousness. “Oh, you know what? Next week's no good for me, the Jonas Brothers are in town.” The id,
which is latin for “it”, is a chaotic mess of impulses
without an organizing self or narrative. “You are literally
too stupid to insult.” “Thank you.” And likewise,
Alan has never felt the need to “grow up”
and become a respectable, bread-winning member of society. “I’m a stay-at-home son” And when we peer into Alan’s mind
in Part 2, he even sees himself
and his friends as children. The other guys are wary
of Alan’s uninhibited eccentricity, “Who brought this guy along?” But deep down they’re drawn to him. “He’s actually kind of funny.” And this represents
the way the movie is celebrating a juvenile silliness. “He’s jacking his little weenis.” “Pull yourself together man.” “Not at the table Carlos.” Alan’s capacity for childlike,
brotherly fun is what the other guys are missing
in their too-adult lives. “When Doug introduced me to you guys,
I thought: 'Wait a second. Could it be? And now, I know for sure. I just added two more guys to my Wolfpack.” It’s significant
that in the first two movies Alan is the one responsible
for drugging the others. “I was told it was ecstasy.” “Why would you give us ecstasy?” “I wanted everyone to have a good time
and I knew you guys wouldn’t take it.” What we’re seeing
is the id overtaking the restrictive parts of their psychology
to let them have fun, for once. By the third Hangover film,
though, even Alan starts to progress beyond being just id. “I must resign from the Wolfpack.” The movies eventually shape
Leslie Chow into the symbol of pure id. “So Mexico, huh? What’re you doing down here?” “You know, doing blow,
same old same old. Ooh, I got into cock fighting.” If Alan was a fun,
playful representation of impulsiveness, Chow, the selfish, reckless criminal, is framed as the dark mirror
of what it means to live a life that’s purely about chasing pleasure
and avoiding pain. Phil would be the ego of the story. The ego,
which is Latin for “I”, is the organized concept of self, which follows
the “reality principle”, meaning it bases its actions
on the reality of the external world, “Alright, let’s just track this thing. Alright what’s the last thing you remember doing last night?” Rather than just doing
whatever it feels like, as the Id does
by following the “pleasure principle”. “Mother, Oreo smoothie now!” Freud described the ego as,
quote, “like a man on horseback,
who has to hold in check the superior strength
of the horse.” And this explains Phil’s special
connection with Alan. “I can’t be your hero anymore.” “Okay.” He clearly likes Alan
and enjoys his free spirit, “Alan, you’re the man!” but Phil himself is careful
not to sever his connection to reality and normality. “Look if someone comes
and finds a dead body and a pile of cocaine
we’re gonna spend the rest of our lives in a fucking Thai prison!” The ego finds socially acceptable ways
to satisfy the id without causing long-term destruction. And this is why Phil considers the ritual
of the bachelor party so sacred. “This is the bachelor party.” “What?” “That’s bullshit,
you can’t just skip out of a bachelor party, Stu.” It’s a socially sanctioned
opportunity to let loose. “He’s getting married in Thailand
and that’s great for him but what about us?” Unlike the others,
Phil is notably unscathed by their dark adventures. “You just forget. It goes away.” As the ego,
he maintains a balance in his life between the extremes of Alan’s wild fun and Stu’s buttoned-up control --
and he does this by periodically releasing his bottled-up impulses and then forgetting about
whatever he did as he returns to his stable adult life. “I mean, what’s the worst
that’s happened? The tattoo?” “Definitely, the tattoo was the worst.” While the Id and the Superego
are generally at odds with each other. “Do you even know what’s going on?” “Yes I do. Phil’s doing all the work,
I’m his assistant and you’re standing there
looking like an idiot.” It’s the ego’s job
to negotiate the relationship between the two. “It’s enough, it’s enough. Guys we can’t fall apart now we got to stick together.” Phil gets along best
with both Alan and Stu, and understands how to control them. The ego moderates the conception
of the self-- and in Phil we see
a person who’s having to update his story of himself
to more accurately reflect his phase of life. In the first movie,
Phil mourns the loss of his young, carefree self
now that he’s a responsible husband, father and schoolteacher. “I may never go back. I might just stay in Vegas.” Phil is a kind of inverse of Stu,
who’s pretending to be happy. Phil pays a lot of lip service
to his unhappiness. “Look I left my wife
and kid at home so I could go with you guys to Vegas. You know how difficult that was?” “That's really sweet Phil.” “Dude, I was being sarcastic. I fucking hate my life.” While He puts on a front
of being the cavalier “cool guy” “I repeat, please disperse.” as it’s important to him
to live up to his self-image of being young, fun, reckless. “Why don’t you just stop worrying
for one minute and be proud of yourself?” But in actuality,
he seems pretty content with his life. In scenes like this one: “Let's go hook up with Doug,
we'll deal with the baby later.” “Phil, we're not gonna leave
a baby in the room. There's a fucking tiger
in the bathroom.” Phil’s lack of concern
for the baby is bizarre, considering he’s the only one
who’s a father. This isn’t authentic behavior. “Just leave him in the car,
we’re only gonna be five minutes.” “We’re not leaving a baby in the car.” “He’ll be fine I cracked the window!” As their adventure gets more
and more out of hand, Phil has to admit that he’s not willing
to blow up the life he secretly likes. “I'm a schoolteacher,
I got a family, okay? I'm all for secrecy,
but I'm not gonna torch a fucking cop car.” The trilogy is full of nods
to Westerns, like these early still shots
of the desert that might remind us
of the start of No Country for Old Men. And when the guys wake up
with their hangover in Part 2, we hear the Western-style song, “The Beast in Me.” The Western undertones hint
at a nostalgia for an era when machismo was more celebrated
and allowed free reign. “Four of us wolves
running around the desert together in Las Vegas
looking for strippers and cocaine.” In its broad strokes,
The Hangover might remind us of Fight Club, David Fincher’s film about
-- spoiler alert -- a man who’s so repressed
that he creates a free-spirited alter-ego, Tyler Durden. “I want you to hit me
as hard as you can.” to let out the aggressive impulses
he won’t let himself act on. “All the ways
you wish you could be, that’s me.” Alan is the Hangover’s Tyler. He may not look
exactly like Brad Pitt but he represents living
without inhibition, and he drugs the guys
to free them up And like Fight Club, T
he Hangover speaks to a crisis of masculinity in our society. “Advertising has us chasing cars
and clothes, working jobs we hate
so that we can buy shit we don’t need.” In both movies,
the male characters lead double lives
because their society doesn't let them express
their primal instincts for aggression and for intense bonding with other men. “Come on, I wasn’t gonna let you go,
you’re my boy.” “And you’re my man.” Funnily enough,
The Hangover is also a kind of 2000s update
to the 80s Three Men and a Baby, “Well it can’t be that difficult,
all we gotta do is-is feed it and it’ll shut up.” As Alan himself acknowledges
in a subtle shout-out, “Its got Ted Danson,
Magnum PI and that Jewish actor.” Both feature a goofy set-up
of three guys finding a mysterious baby, while their underlying story
is about men grieving the loss of their carefree bachelor life
as they age into a phase of adult responsibility. “I assemble cities of the future
I can certainly put together a goddamn diaper.” Another striking resemblance
between these films is that they spend
an unnecessary amount of time on thriller and crime plots
that go nowhere. “Bring money to big rock
in Mohabi desert at dawn.” “We’ll be at the phone booth
at the corner of 81st and Columbus at exactly 8pm tonight.” The movie also has
some aspects of Superbad, where the teens’ plan to party hard
is really driven by their sadness about losing each other. “I love you. Why don't we say that every day? Why can't we say it more often?” The guys’ search for Doug
symbolizes their repressed fear of losing him
as he prepares to get married and start a new chapter. Moreover,
these issues aren’t uniquely male. Bridesmaids follows a woman
in a similar transitional period acting out. “This should be open,
because it’s civil rights. This is the 90’s.” “It’s not,
you’re in the wrong decade.” And denying that anything is wrong, “I’m fine.” “No, you're not fine. You are not fine, Annie.” Because it’s hard for her
to lose her best friend to marriage. “Oh my God what is happening?” So there’s a universality
to the grief that human beings feel as they move beyond that time
of life when friendships are center stage,
and say goodbye to their young, responsibility-free selves. “Now that I’m getting married
I’m going to be spending a lot more time with Cassandra.” “Of course,
that’s the way it should be.” “The point is you need to let me go.” At first glance,
The Hangover may appear to be a celebration of partying. “Remember, what happens in Vegas
stays in Vegas.” But as the movies get darker,
they reveal a perversity in American binge-drinking culture. “After the Hard Rock, I blacked out. It was like emptiness.” After all,
what does it say that the hallmark
of a great night out is not being able to remember it? “Why can't we remember
a goddamn thing from last night?” “Because we obviously
had a great fucking time.” Phil believes forgetting works. “I promise you
no one is ever going to find out about this.” “But we just found out about it.” “And then we forget -
that’s what we do! I’ve done so much fucked-up shit
and I just forget about it.” And he reflects a society
that implicitly encourages these kinds of releases in the dark,
so that its citizens will continue with a status quo
that doesn’t actually satisfy them. “That’s what I’m gonna do. I’m just gonna forget about it.” “Never happened.” Compensating for a lackluster,
reality with big nights out to “get it out of their system”
pacifies these dissatisfied men, so they’re not motivated
to change their lives. “Thanks for the bachelor party,
I guess?” “Yeah, I just wish
we could actually remember some of it.” But if, as a collective,
we feel the urge to numb ourselves in the name of fun,
eventually we have to ask, what’s so oppressive
about our daily lives that we’re running away from? “Don’t you think it’s strange
that you’ve been in a relationship for three years and you still have to lie
about going to Vegas?” “Yeah I do. But trust me
it’s not worth the fight.” Unlike most narratives
which fix their characters’ issues by the end, the Hangover franchise
doesn’t really show these guys making any progress. Each movie wraps up
with lessons seemingly learned, only to undo all that. The guys never overcome this cycle --
What we’re seeing here is repetition, compulsion, where the unconscious mind
makes us repeat destructive or traumatic behavior. This is also at the center
of Alfred Hitchcock’s Vertigo, in which Scottie is haunted
by a debilitating fear until he returns
to the scene of the crime and confronts it. “I want to stop being haunted.” That film’s near-happy ending “I made it.” is a bait-and-switch,
as Scottie ends up reliving his traumatic experience
and will now be even more damaged than before. Likewise, in Hangover Part 3,
the guys return to the scene of their original crime -- Vegas. “I told myself
I would never come back.” They capture the trilogy’s dark
“id” figure, Chow, Yet this dark id cannot be escaped. “The wedding cake, it was from Leslie.” “We had a sick night bitches.” In The Hangover Part II,
Phil says, “We weren’t ourselves last night.” but in fact,
these unconscious selves contain a real
and important part of them. “Late last night, you climbed the walls
of our monastery, shouting out questions about love,
marriage and the meaning of life.” So one moral of this story
is in vino veritas. Our best bet
is to strive for a waking life that gratifies our truest urges. “You ended up ditching Melissa. Two years later, you met your true soulmate. You take Vegas out of that equation, you would have married a cunt.” The Wolfpack’s fourth member,
Doug shows that this is a possibility,
at least if your desires are considered “normal” by society. He appears fulfilled
by his loving relationship with Tracy, “You’re the best.” “Hey, we’re a team.” -- and his well-adjusted nature
is why he doesn’t have that much to do in these movies. “I mean,
we each had one beer last night, right? I mean, you too.” “Yeah, but I left early,
remember?” If the Hangover contains
any advice it’s that -- just as our greatest dangers
come from within us -- the answers to our problems
are buried within us, too. “Every memory
lives somewhere deep within.” To solve their mysteries,
all the guys have to do is remember. “Can someone tell me
where white Doug is?” “He’s on the roof Alan.” “Penny goes up, power goes out,
holy shit.” We may not be willing
to face what we really know deep down, “I don’t remember anything, do you?” “No, I got nothing.” But if we don’t,
sooner or later that buried truth is coming back
to bite us. “Good or bad, we don’t remember
so we don’t got nothing to talk about.” “Nothing guys, nothing. 