“Hi liar.” “Hey.” “Look, I mean, I'm not saying
she's like evil or anything. Ursula Buffay is more than just
Phoebe Buffay's alluring, fantastically mean sister. “I’d invite you but um
I only have two tickets left.” This mysterious and disturbing
presence on Friends is one of comedy's most iconic
examples of the evil twin. “May we help you?” These sisters may be
identical on the outside, “It's me, Phoebe.” “Oh, I thought there
was a mirror there.” but inside, they're
total opposites. “Do you want some chicken?” “No, no. No food with a face.” So what's the deeper meaning
of Ursula in this story? “It's true, we were one egg once. But um, you know, we've grown apart so um.” Phoebe’s dark double
expresses all the negative qualities her sister
has rejected. The light sister is warm,
well-intentioned and feeling. The dark one is cold, devious
and basically an embodiment of the apathy Phoebe has worked
so hard not to give into. “I just lost a whole
year of my life.” “Okay.” Even though this would
have been the easier path given the childhood
trauma she lived through, “Let’s see my mom had killed
herself, and my dad had run off and I was living in a gremlin
with a guy named Cindy who talked to his hand” To dig into Ursula's psychology
and what she symbolizes on the show, we're going to look back
at the history of the evil twin and why this trope is a window
into what we fear most about ourselves. “Twin stuff is always a real big seller.” So click the link in the description
below, to sign up NOW. “BOO!” So where does
the evil twin come from? “The old saying you know, that one
of twins is likely to be abnormal.” The good-evil twin structure comes
from the idea in many cultures that twins embody duality
or are inversions of each other. “You see, in all witch twins, one twin
is evil, and the other one is good.” In recent memory, the character type
is most associated with soap operas. "What a soap opera. I was waiting
for, like, an evil twin to appear.” As we see on Friends itself. “I got an audition for All My Children! And I'm so, so right for it, you know. He's just like me. Except that he's
a boxer and and has an evil twin” “He's not Drake. He's
Hans Ramoray, Drake's evil twin!” And Ursula’s plots, channel
the over-the-top villainy of the soap-opera-style clone, “Okay, yeah not a prayer chain. But what looks like a detailed drawing of a bank floor plan.” as she exploits her likeness
to Phoebe for her own gain, “That was Phoebe Buffay, the porn star.” creating confusion and chaos
everywhere she goes. “We didn't have sex.” “Well if I didn’t have sex with you,
I had sex with somebody that looked an awful lot like—” “Eww! Eww! Eww!” The Evil Twin has been gracing
our screens at least since the 1930s and 40s
and can be traced to a variety of
genres: horrors, “I’ve been getting ready
for this for months.” “Now when I appear before
them as the kindly Anton, no one will oppose me.” noir thrillers, “Well that's what twins are, you
know. Reflections of each other. Everything in reverse.” westerns, “He's just a man who looks like me. Apparently enough so to be my twin.” and serial films. It’s also a longstanding
fixture in comic books. “Who are you?” “The question is, who are you?” The 1939 adaptation of Alexandre Dumas’
Man in the Iron Mask is a good template for a lot of what would become
fixtures of evil twin stories: “We were almost one body,
one life. You half, me half.” twins who’ve been
separated for a long time, “She said you guys haven't
talked in like years” “Mhm yeah.” to the point that the good twin
may not even know about the other, “I am saving Your Majesty,
the embarrassment of hanging your twin brother.” “Brother?” an identifying physical mark so
the audience can tell them apart, “It's a tattoo. That's weird. Phoebe doesn’t— Wait, that's Ursula!” the evil twin impersonating
their sibling, “Let's go, Phoebe.” “And and! You're using my name.” the good twin coming out on top
symbolizing the triumph of justice, “I just went to pick up Phoebe Buffay's
checks. There were a lot of ‘em.” and environmental differences
that may partially explain the twins’ wildly divergent
moral compasses. “But you forced my half to live
in shadow and despair, so that your half might
live in grandeur and glory.” One of the most artistically
significant early uses of the evil twin is Charlie Chaplin’s
The Great Dictator, in which a good-hearted
Jewish Barber is a dead ringer for the most evil
figure imaginable, Adenoid Hynkel, a mocking
stand-in for Adolf Hitler. [Coughing] Against the backdrop
of this bottomless hate, the Barber becomes a beacon
of goodness and hope. “We want to live by each other’s
happiness, not by each other’s misery. We don’t want to hate
and despise one another.” Chaplin’s 1940 film was made to fight
fascism in the midst of World War II, and it brings out the main point
of the Evil Twin dichotomy: it’s a way using two people
to represent inverse moral views. “The way of life
can be free and beautiful, but we
have lost the way.” This is exactly what we
see in Friends, too. Ursula is the inverse of Phoebe’s
most defining character traits. Phoebe’s relationships
mean everything to her. “My friends are the most
important thing in my life.” So Ursula doesn’t seem
to care about anyone. “See I already thought she was dead,
so I've kind of made my peace with it.” Phoebe is generous
and giving to a fault; Ursula is selfish
and only takes. “It’s a filthy disgusting habit
and I want you to quit now.” “She’s helped so many
people quit smoking.” At the core of Ursula’s characterization
is a total lack of feeling for others, “Do you have my birth certificate?” “No, I sold it to a Swedish runaway” which underlines
that the core of Phoebe’s character is
how much she cares. “I’m gonna be out there
spreading joy to the people. I mean last year I spread a little
joy but not really enough. So this year, I’m gonna
do the whole city.” Ursula’s evil-twin nature was
actually born of circumstance. The character originated on another
popular sitcom, Mad About You, which ran on NBC from 1992 - 1999. “Meanwhile I think our waitress
took another job. Hello!” “Oh, there you are.” “And uh I’ll have the same.” “As, as her?” “Yeah, same as her but
I would like my own.” “Okay, I’ll ask if we’re
allowed to do that.” Ursula’s original personality
was still oblivious, “Ursula the menu
is on fire. Ursula.” “Okay what do you want?” “The menu is on fire.” “Oh! Alright. Ooh.” but she wasn’t a villain— she
was just off in her own world. “I saw Ursula as like this
nice person, you know. Really nice. Just didn’t pay
attention to anything.” “You look different?” “I had a baby. Last time you
saw me I was pregnant.” “No that’s not it.” “Okay.” “You got your braces off.” When Lisa Kudrow was cast
as Phoebe on Friends, the show creators were
tasked with explaining why the same actress was
appearing on two different shows with similar time slots—
so they made the characters twins. And it was then that Ursula was
reframed as a dark antagonist. “I think it was the Friends writers who
decided that Ursula was this evil person. You know. Maybe they didn’t like
that they had to include her. I don’t know.” When Phoebe first mentions Ursula,
she explains the conflict between her and her sister as a lack
of things in common. “You're a twin?” “Oh yeah. We don't speak. She's like this high-powered,
driven, career-type.” “What does she do?” “She's a waitress.” But when we meet Ursula, she
strikes us as very similar to Phoebe. “Hello, miss?” “It's Phoebe!” “Hi!” “Hi.” “Okay will that be all?” “Can we start over?” “Yeah, okay great. I’m gonna be over here.” “No no no!” She’s deeply quirky and you never
know what she’ll do or say next. “I think Ursula likes me. All I ordered was coffee. She brought me a tuna melt
and four plates of curly fries.” In Mad About You,
we get plenty of scenes where you’d be hard-pressed to tell
which sister you’re watching: “May yee endureth
winter’s oncoming wrath.” “So what, is Riff’s doing
a whole Thanksgiving’s theme thing where
all the staff dresses up?” “No.” On Friends, though,
Ursula’s weirdness is reinterpreted as pathology—
a sign that she’s a sociopath. “The only reason he’s marrying you
is because he thinks all the things you were saying about
yourself, were true.” “Well, they could be true”
“But they’re not.” “Yeah, it’s a fine line.” By the 1960s, TV was full
of evil twins, on everything from The Flintstones
to I Dream of Jeannie. “Goodbye, sucker. I mean uh, Sister.” Three out of the seven
of the castaways on Gilligan’s Island had
to fend with evil twins. “I can pass as Ginger
at the party tonight. I can fool anyone, anywhere.” Popular Western Bonanza,
gave evil twins to all three of the main family’s sons. One character, Little Joe,
even got two separate evil twins. These examples showed how
writers reach for the evil twin to explore who their
characters really are, by contrasting them with a shadow. “You know boss there’s just
one thing that worries me. It’s about this superman,
the real one I mean. You know, he’s not
a punk like me.” In Friends, too, Ursula represents a kind
of alternate life for Phoebe. “There goes my
identical twin sister. Just walking along
looking like me.” We know that Phoebe has
a certain darkness in her. It comes out whenever she
speaks about her past life “Well, a pipe was my
weapon of choice and um preteen, comic-book
nerds were my meat.” and in the alternate
reality episodes where she’s an obsessive,
uncompromising workaholic. “It’s okay, you’re
allowed one mistake. Just kidding,
you are of course fired.” in light of this, it’s interesting
that she describes Ursula as a— “High-powered,
driven, career-type.” when she’s clearly not. This underlines that Ursula
represents the person Phoebe easily could have been,
but actively chooses not to be, by opting to do the hardest thing
you can do when the world hasn’t been kind to you: care. The sad irony revealed through
Ursula’s storyline is that in our society it often pays not to care. Even though Phoebe
and Ursula are identical, Ursula has long been considered
the more appealing version. “Like, everyone always
thought of her as the pretty one.” As an adult, Ursula
is irresistible to men. “I think she's the most
beautiful woman I’ve ever seen” “Thank you.” She’s like a siren who puts
them in a lovesick spell. “One more chance,
Ursula. Please.” “You know I mean, this is just,
this is what she does to guys, okay?” While Phoebe picks up
the pieces of the broken hearts her sister leaves in her wake. “I'm just gonna help him. You know, get ‘de-Ursula-ized.” “That’s good. You should be
impulsive, and you should be romantic. Just, you did it with the wrong person.” So what is it about Ursula that is so
spell-binding to the opposite sex? “Hey, what do you—
What do you think of her?” “She carries a very nice tray.” “Boy, I’ll say.” Ursula is unknowable. Her
inner nature is a total mystery. “I don’t know I like her,
you know. She's different. There's uh…something about her.” Most likely because
she’s totally empty, but in her admirers,
this sparks an obsessive desire to see inside
an opaque personality. Ursula is unattainable—
totally emotionally unavailable. “So um, are you gonna call him?” “Why? You think he likes me?” “No. Joey.” “Oh. No, no. He is so
smart. He’ll figure it out.” Ultimately, it appears to be
Ursula’s very lack of caring, “Why are you taking
this so seriously? It's just a marriage.” the fact that she doesn’t really give
a damn, about them or anything. “Well, I'm supposed to be
working at the restaurant tonight. I'm supposed to be working
right now, so, who cares?!” That drives men wild. “Well, did you try calling her?” “I've been trying for two days. When I called the restaurant, they said she was too busy to talk. I can't believe she's blowing me off.” Essentially, it’s Ursula’s
worse personality that makes her more attractive to men. “Phoebe's Phoebe. Ursula's hot.” No doubt the injustice of this
stabs Phoebe in the heart, especially when it’s Joey who falls
for this emotional detachment, given Phoebe’s special
love for this friend which, it’s hinted at times, may
border on romantic feelings. “Yeah, crushes happen all the time. I know I've had them for all you guys. Well, except for Ross and Chandler.” It’s true that Ursula’s style
of emotional detachment frequently gets rewarded in our society. Ursula goes through life more
unscathed than Phoebe. She hurts others, and they
don’t get to hurt her. In the Mad About You
finale, we’re told, “Ursula Buffay, as you know,
became governor of New York,” a joke playing on how
total incompetence inevitably rises to the top. “Put on the pancake. Which—Just pay her.” “Yeah.” “My biggest fears are
literally twins and clowns.” Lookalikes are a prime example of
what Freud called “The Uncanny,” a disconcerting mix of
the familiar and the unfamiliar. Freud said one source of
the uncanny is repetition. Superstitions about twins may also
come from the fact that having multiple babies at a time is much more
common for non-human animals. To this day, there are some cultures
that see twins as evil and will go as far as to kill twin babies. The formidable threat of the Evil Twin
draws on all these supernatural associations and misconceptions. “How'd you know I was coming?” “Um, yeah, um, twin thing.” How can you defeat someone who looks
like you and knows how you’ll act, plus seems to have access
to otherworldly power? “They think like us. They know where we are. They won't stop until they
kill us. Or we kill them.” In Friends, we can see this
in how Ursula apparently knows everything about their past, “I read about her in
Mom's suicide note.” “There was a suicide note?” “Yeah, no we're not 30. We're 31. Okay.” while Phoebe is constantly
searching and struggling to fill in the mystery of
her personal history. “Your middle
name is Pamela?” “Yes.” “Oh, I never knew mine.” The evil twin uses
their gifts to impersonate their sibling for
malevolent purposes, “Sister, you kissed my master
and made him think it was me.” wantonly destroying
the good twin’s reputation. “Instead he picked up that rifle
and shot my brother, Eb” “Glenn, I don't know what
you're talking about. I haven't been up in
Red Wing in months.” We can all relate to how
nightmarish this would feel: if someone who looked exactly
like you showed up and started turning your world against you,
getting you into trouble for things you didn’t do—how could you
possibly prove this wasn’t you? “I'm your dad's twin brother. No one believes me.” “Unfortunately for Oscar,
‘You've got the wrong twin’ was a very popular alibi.” This is exactly what Ursula does. “He just said Phoebe's a porn star.” “Well, I wouldn't call her a star,
but she's really good. You should check out
‘lnspect Her Gadget.’” We also get a reversal of this
when good twin Phoebe impersonates her sister in
service of an act of kindness: letting Joey down easy. “You know, you're gonna be
really, really hard to get over.” Underlying this fear of being
impersonated by an evil imposter is another, even more
potent nightmare: what if it is you? In literature, a version
of the evil twin has long been around as:
“the doppelgänger.” “Uh, doppelgänger? Uh, corporeal
likeness that appears unbidden from the spirit world, the sight of
which presages one's own death.” Seeing this alternate version of
yourself is a reminder of your mortality, and it’s also a manifestation of what
Carl Jung called the “shadow” which he said, quote, “personifies everything
that the subject refuses to acknowledge about himself.” Phoebe reacts to Ursula
with fearful aversion, “Think it would it be okay
if I asked out your sister?” “Why? Why would you
want to do that? Why?” like this person embodies
the urges and impulses within her that she most detests
and strives to keep in check. Jordan Peele’s Us, imagines
that we all have doppelgängers embodying our buried guilt and sins. "What are you people?" "We're Americans." Perhaps the most iconic
example of this idea is Robert Louis Stevenson’s, Strange
Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde. We’re presented with a violent
criminal character named Hyde and a good one named Jekyll,
only to learn that these two are actually one person. “And the so-called evil,
once liberated, would fulfill itself and trouble us no more.” So this story highlights
how the evil double is really a narrative stand-in
for that part of ourselves that we’re trying to cut out. “Which, in psychological terms,
represents the person's secret desires and impulses, committing acts
that the uh, that the real person cannot commit himself.” We can see a modern update
to this story in Breaking Bad, “Mirrored images, right? Active, inactive. Good, bad.” where the inoffensive chemistry
teacher, Walter White, discovers a Mr. Hyde within himself—the meth
cook mastermind, Heisenberg. “Say my name.” And this inner evil twin,
gradually takes over, "I did it for me. I liked it.” This idea that the protagonist
and their evil doppelgänger are two parts of the same person,
is reinforced by the common practice of one actor playing both roles. In so many stories, the monster
is a dark mirror of the hero, an inversion of the hero’s value
system which must be defeated. The evil twin makes
this in-your-face, by turning the monster
into the hero’s literal mirror. Ursula the shadow, define’s
Phoebe’s bright light. And we might all ask ourselves:
what does my shadow look like? What is the version of myself,
I’m most afraid of? Ursula may come across
as one-dimensionally evil, “If I cheat on him,
I can call it an affair.” but is Phoebe truly a reliable
narrator where her sister is concerned? “She was the first
to start walking even though I did it
later that same day. But to my parents,
by then it was like, ‘Yeah, right well
what else is new?’” Most of Phoebe’s reasons for disliking
Ursula come from the distant past, “She's always breaking my stuff. When I was 8, and I wouldn't let her have my Judy Jetson thermos
so she threw it under the bus.” revealing that her
rigid mental image of her sister was
formed a long time ago. “And she, you know, kind of stole
him away and then broke his heart. And then he wouldn't
even talk to me anymore.” Phoebe’s recollections betray
an envy of Ursula that carries through to this day. “He’s really nutsy about you.” “He is? Why?” “You got me.” And there’s nothing like envy
to make us interpret everything about someone in
the worst possible light. “Can you try this on. I just
want to make sure it fits.” “Oh, my first birthday present! Oh, this is really—” “Oh no no no, it's for Ursula.” It’s worth trying to picture all of
this from Ursula’s perspective. When we get this exchange in
their very first scene together: “You have not changed.” “Yeah, you too.” it's hinted that Ursula finds
her sister deeply irritating, and there may be some lingering
baggage on her end as well. “Can I come in?” “Um, yeah no thanks.” It’s not hard to imagine
that Phoebe may not have been the easiest
sibling to live with. As a youth, she was
a hardened, violent criminal. "Someday, I'll tell you about
the time I stabbed a cop." "Phoebe!" “WHAT? HE STABBED ME FIRST!" When Phoebe greets her sister
after all these years with the gift of a Judy Jetson thermos, “Right, like the kind you.” “Right.” if you're Ursula this comes across
as a pretty passive aggressive gesture— a reminder that she's
still not over something childish you did when you were 8. Ursula is the kind of person
who doesn't feel the need to explain herself when
people don't get her. This doesn't necessarily mean
that the obvious interpretation of her behavior is the correct one. The truth is that Ursula is a mystery
and she remains that, because Phoebe just doesn’t get her. “Why are you lying to him?” “I don't know. He said he
did all this stuff and then I said I did it too and he got
so excited, it was really fun.” We, too, are primed to see Ursula
through these biased eyes, so we don’t extend her the same
empathy and benefit of the doubt that we automatically give her twin. But If you really do try to make sense
of Ursula in Mad About You as the same person we see on Friends, “What’s the soup today?” “Wait, I know this one.” it’s plausible to say
that Ursula’s “evil” is really Phoebe’s harsh read
of a person who, while she’s no saint, may deserve a more sympathetic look. “What’s your name?” “I’m Ursula.” “Ursula. Ooh! I like that name.” “I don't. I hate it.” When the friends are
still under the impression that it’s Phoebe in the porn
video, Monica justifies this: “I guess it kinda
makes sense though, I mean she had such
a terrible childhood.” And she hits on something here—
the sisters’ difficult youth may well be why Ursula acts out in
stereotypical ways: selling her body, “So you're making porn movies?” “No, I'm not.” “We're still rolling!” being emotionally
closed off and shutting down
potential relationships, “He is so great. But that's over.” and not wanting Phoebe
or any other family in her life. “Who is it?” “It's Phoebe.” “Oh, great! Oh, you.” Seen through this lens,
Ursula is really a tragic figure who’s been permanently
scarred by her painful past. Recent examples of the evil twin
bring out that antisocial behavior can stem from feeling
mistreated by society. “I couldn't stop thinking about you. About how good you have it.” “You seen the movie, Annie? Like that. Only no nice Miss Hannigan for us. And my Sandy was a rat.” It’s true that Phoebe lived through
the same childhood as Ursula— but it’s also true Ursula’s behavior
seems like a far more realistic response to trauma than
Phoebe’s happy-go-lucky warmth. “And I ended up living
with this albino guy who was like cleaning windshields
outside Port Authority. And then he killed himself. And then, I found aromatherapy. So believe me, I know
exactly how you feel.” There are plenty of positive stories
about twins completing each other and sharing profound
emotional intimacy. “There's two of me. l mean, two of us.” The twin bond embodies
the fantasy of being born with a soulmate-for-life. “There's a twin bond. Unless you’ve experienced it, you can't understand it.” “We're twins. We're not like regular
people. When I was a kid, I broke my arm and he cried out
in pain ten miles away.” Twins may develop their own language,
and the Minnesota Twin Family Study, found that genetic influence
is so strong that even twins separated at infancy,
are likely to end up having an eerie
amount in common. “I eat them with peanut butter.” “You do? That is so weird. So do l.” “You're kidding. Most people
find that totally disgusting.” On Game of Thrones,
Cersei and Jaime Lannister are an interesting example of both
the good/bad twin dichotomy and the intimate twin bond. You might say Cersei
is Jaime’s evil twin, yet the show suggests their
incestuous romantic connection is a closeness we non-twins
can’t even imagine. “We shared a womb. We came into this world together. We belong together.” Cersei and Jaime’s twin
obsession is a little extreme, “Nothing else matters. Only us.” still, when we look at estranged
twins Phoebe and Ursula, “Oh I got you a birthday present.” “Oh wow, you remembered!” We can’t help but see a missed
opportunity for a one of a kind ally who knows you like no one can. “Yeah it’s gonna be a small
ceremony. Just family. His.” Even though Phoebe’s friends
are her chosen family, we sense that not having
a good relationship with her sister really wears on her. “That's everything I wanted
to do before I was 30. Oh, except I wanted to patch
things up with my sister.” And we get a hint that maybe,
deep down, Ursula wants Phoebe in her life, too. “Wait, if um, if you want to come,
I guess that'd be okay.” “Really?” “Sure. Why not? You could
be my ‘sister’ for the day.” Her feelings are just buried
under many more defensive layers than Phoebe’s are. And the sad truth is,
the kind of misfortunes these sisters have endured,
so often do drive a wedge between people, instead
of strengthening their bond. “And I have a sister
who I've barely spoken to since we like shared a womb.” While we can applaud Phoebe
for choosing not to be like Ursula, that also means Ursula has
the potential to be more like Phoebe, if only she were willing
to give into the goodness she’s repressed deep within. “It's just so weird, two people
look so much alike. So different.” 