of Skillshare’s Premium membership. {♫Intro♫} On an average day, it can be easy to forget
that you live on a rock in space that’s constantly interacting with other celestial
objects. There are obvious clues from the Sun and the
Moon, like the sunset and the tides. But those aren’t the only noticeable effects
of celestial bodies on Earth. Scientists have found at least three cycles
in nature that can be traced back to the alignment of the planets. And while they won’t tell you anything about
your love life or personality, by studying them, we can learn about our planet’s past
and future—and even how the solar system has changed. People have known for a long time that the
Sun goes through an 11-year cycle. At the peak, its surface is full of flares
and sunspots, and at the lowest point, things are pretty calm. And, since at least the 1800s, scientists
have suspected that that cycle might somehow be tied to the positions of the planets. Problem was, the gravitational pull of the
planets on the Sun is pretty weak—so no one understood exactly how that would work. Then, in studies published in 2016 and 2019,
scientists examined a thousand years’ worth of data on solar activity and planetary positions. They concluded that there are three planets
that have a weak but noticeable effect on the Sun, especially when they all line up:
Venus and Earth, because they’re relatively close, and Jupiter, because it is so massive. Every 11 years, those planets form a line
with the Sun, either on the same side or the opposite ones. And over that thousand years’ worth of data,
that alignment has been followed by a minimum in solar activity a few years later. Now, scientists think they finally understand
why. While the combined gravitational tug of these
planets doesn’t add up to much, it’s enough to k influence the plasma at the Sun’s surface. And according to models, that’s enough to
cause a flip in the Sun’s magnetic field—resetting the cycle of solar activity every eleven years. We haven’t had a memorable solar storm in
a while, so this idea of solar activity might seem kind of abstract, but powerful outbursts
from the Sun can have a significant impact on Earth. Back in 1859, a severe solar storm wiped out
telegraph systems, and a similar storm would be very bad for our electric grid today. Even relatively mild solar weather occasionally
blocks radio communications or messes with satellites. So the alignment of the planets, which drives
solar activity, has real effects on our lives. But other planets don’t just affect us indirectly. Through their interaction with the Sun: the
positions of Jupiter and Venus can also directly influence Earth. Once again, scientists predicted this was
the case long before they had any evidence of it. See, models of the planets’ orbits show
that when Jupiter and Venus line up with Earth on the same side of the Sun, they stretch
out Earth’s orbit, making it 5% more elliptical than usual. That happens every 405,000 years, and scientists
had a pretty good idea that it drove shifts in climate, but they didn’t get their first
concrete evidence until 2018. That year, a team of researchers dug up a
sediment core—basically, a tube of dirt—extending more than 500 meters below the Arizona desert,
and representing hundreds of millions of years of history. Once they’d established the ages of the
different layers of the core, they saw that, on a large scale, climate patterns repeated
themselves every 405,000 years. Since that stretched-out orbit ever-so-slightly
changes the amount of sunlight reaching our planet, it makes summers and winters more
extreme, and wet and dry periods more intense. In fact, from that one column of earth, scientists
were able to confirm that this climate cycle has been repeating like clockwork for at least
215 million years. The effect is subtle over short time periods,
but researchers have already begun pinning certain environmental and ecological events
to this climate pattern—like changes in the types of dinosaurs that were around. So, the movements of the planets can help
us understand patterns in Earth’s geological record and even help us predict certain events
in the future. But the effect of the planets’ movement
on Earth may also help us understand the movement of the planets themselves. See, the previous two cycles dealt with pretty
short timescales, astronomically-speaking. And in the short term, planetary motions are
basically like clockwork. But thanks to subtle gravitational interactions,
planets’ paths slowly change over time. We don’t know exactly how they’ve changed,
though—because you can only assume so much based on how planets move today. In fact, orbital models can only go back about
60 million years, which is a blink in the life of the solar system. To get a model that goes back any further,
you need more data about the planets’ positions in the past—and scientists have found exactly
that… in Earth’s geological record. Back in the 1980s, scientists analyzed another
core of sediment drilled from the Earth—this one from a former lakebed in New Jersey. Layers of mud preserved records of different
water levels in the past—and in those layers, there was an unusual cycle. It started out repeating every 1.75 million
years, but it slowed down until, today, it’s repeating just every 2.4 million years. In 2018, scientists found the same irregular
cycle in the core from Arizona. They believe it’s caused by changes in the
orbit of Mars, which, again, subtly warps Earth’s orbit in a way that creates shifts
in the climate. What’s exciting is that by connecting the
climate cycle to planetary positions, scientists could use this evolving cycle to pin down
the movements of the planets. Essentially, this gives us new data to put
into models of the solar system and look back even further than 60 million years. In other words, climate clues locked in Earth’s
soil could help us figure out how planets moved in the past. So not only do other planets have real effects
on Earth, but those effects can help us understand our relationship with other celestial bodies
over time. {♫Outro♫} 