(upbeat music) (upbeat music continues) I thought we'd settled this. Right. Me and Mehdi from ElectroBOOM released two videos simultaneously with different explanations
for why the chain goes up before it goes down when it leaves a pot, after which it seemed that
more people agreed with Mehdi than with me, so I released a follow-up video after which it seemed that
more people agreed with me. But did it convince Mehdi? - I watched Steve's video and I thought, damn, I
was wrong about this. But then I quickly
realized (slaps himself) I was just mesmerized with his blue eyes and soothing voice. - This is Mehdi's followup
video to my followup video. And it seems as if now more
people agree with Mehdi. So, I'm back, and
hopefully after this video it'll be settled and
everyone will be persuaded by my explanation. But more importantly, hopefully, Mehdi will be persuaded so that we can finally
put this thing to bed and I can finally earn
my 10,000 Canadian cents. I believe that for the chain
fountain to rise from the pot, there needs to be an additional
force coming from the pot. But Mehdi doesn't believe that additional force is required. My understanding of the phenomenon is based on Biggins and
Warner's explanation, I'll leave a link to their
paper in the description, but the basic principle is that there is some kind of
reaction force from the pot. That is to say as the
chain leaves the pot, there is some mechanism by
which the chain kicks back against the pile of chain in the pot or against the pot itself and we know that every action has an equal and opposite reaction, so if the chain is
kicking against the pot, then the pot is kicking against the chain, and it's that force that
causes the fountain to rise. It may be that there
are multiple mechanisms for this kickback force, but I suspect the dominant
mechanism is a levering effect. Due to the fact that the
chain is somewhat stiff, it can only be bent to a certain point. It has a minimum radius of curvature. So as the chain leaves the pot, this rigid section pivots
around its center of mass causing that downward
force on the container and actually in the absence
of something to push against, you see part of the chain move down. You can see it in this simulation here. And you can see it in this
horizontal version of the test where the chain is spaced out. You see the levering
effect causes the chain to move down a little. When the chain is bunched up, you can see that that kickback force causes the pile of chain to recoil. In Mehdi's first video, he showed that a chain fountain can arise in this horizontal version of the test with spaced out chain. And of course with spaced out chain, there's nothing for the
chain to kick against as it's leaving the pile. But I argued that this isn't
really a chain fountain because the peak of the
fountain actually recedes. The fact that the distance
between the pile of chain and the peak is increasing is just because the pile
is receding so quickly. What's interesting is that
according to the analysis that I made in the first video, the peak of the chain
in this horizontal test shouldn't recede at all. Like in the absence of the kickback force, the peak should stay where it is. So why does it drop? Well, actually, if you look
closely at the analysis, we only expect the shape
and position of that arc to stay fixed, in other words, for the chain
to move through its shape without the shape changing, if the chain is moving in steady state, in other words, if the chain
is moving at constant speed and there are no external
forces acting on the chain. So actually we do expect the fountain to recede for two reasons. In the beginning, as the chain
is being brought up to speed, well, it's not a constant speed, so we expect the chain to recede then. So we expect the arc not to
keep its shape in the beginning. We expect it to recede. But even once the chain
has reached constant speed, we still need to think about friction. I suspect that friction will
drag the fountain down too. So it's my belief that for
the chain fountain to rise, there needs to be an
additional force from the pile to overcome friction. And at the very beginning of the test that force is needed to overcome
that downward acceleration, we expect due to the fact that the chain isn't yet moving at a constant speed. In my follow-up video, I
compare the spaced out case with the bunched up case. And, look, in the bunched up case you can see that the peak
of the fountain rises whereas it doesn't in the spaced out case. Mehdi was quite critical
of this comparison as you can see from this clip. And I actually think he has a point. I think we actually disagree slightly on why my test was bad. Look, let me summarize
it from my point of view. In my comparison, the bar for success is set higher for the spaced out chain than for the bunched up chain. If we're saying that the fountain needs to overcome friction, well look, the distance
from the pile to the peak is greater in the space out case, so there's more friction
for it to overcome. And clearly that's not fair. Mehdi thinks that this
comparison actually supports his view of how the chain fountain works. Obviously we disagree on that, but one thing we can agree on, I think, is the fact that there are
too many confounding factors in this comparison. I've changed too many things. In science if you wanna test how one thing affects the other, then you should only really
change that one thing and keep everything else the same. But I haven't done that here. In one case there's a kickback force and in the other case there isn't, but actually in one case, the pile recedes more
quickly than the other. And so it's not a fair comparison. So what about this setup where the spacing between the chains is the same in both tests? 'Cause I've got these steps here and the distance between the steps is the same in both cases. But look, in one case,
the chain is pressed up against the riser of each step, and in the other case, it's up against the edge of each step. So look, in the left-hand case, there's something for the
chain to push against, and in the right hand case, there isn't. But in every other respect, I think it's the same. And look, in the case where the chain is at the edge of the step and there's nothing
for it to push against, we see once again that the
peak of the fountain recedes. But in the case where there is something for the chain to push against, we see that the fountain actually rises. It's interesting that in the case where there's nothing to push against the peak of the fountain recedes but only to begin with. Towards the end of the
test it seems as though the peak of the fountain stops receding. And I think I can make sense of that. In the beginning as the chain speeds up, we expect the fountain to
recede due to the fact that the chain isn't in steady state anymore, but once the chain is in steady state, we would expect the chain
fountain peak to stay where it is if it weren't for friction. And because of this step setup, we've removed friction from the ground because the chain is essentially
flying through the air at this point. And having removed what I imagine is the main source of friction, rubbing against the ground, the peak seems to stay where it is. I also had a look at the effect of damping the kickback force. In Mehdi's most recent video, he suggests that the
tests where we drop chain from a tray may be inconclusive because even with proper metal bead chain, there seems to be no fountain, but actually that's not true. Look, in this test the chain
reaches a decent height. The fabric is there so we
can run the test again, but this time with some
really light stuffing underneath the fabric. This stuffing should
dampen the kickback force. And actually, look, that's what we see, the chain fountain doesn't rise as much. These two tests to me are quite convincing that a kickback force is required. A lot of people suggested
that I should try to measure this extra force from the pot. If I put the pot on scales, then the kickback force from the chain should push down on the scales and the weight reading from the scales should be greater than we would expect. So you could film it and
if you mark the beads, so you know how much
chain there is in there, but from the marks on the beads, you know how much it should weigh, and you look at the reading and you see what it actually does weigh and that should tell you the extra force. I actually mentioned in the first video, that that's difficult from an
instrumentation point of view. Getting scales that are fast
enough and accurate enough. But then I thought to myself, you know what, actually,
I haven't tried, have I? So this is an extremely
accurate force gauge. It samples a thousand times per second, which should be fast enough. Actually though, the issue is
with the speed of the readout. The readout seems to
refresh every five seconds, and every time the readout refreshes it's changed by about
a quarter of a Newton. Based on my explanation, we actually only expect an
additional force in the pot of about 0.1 Newtons. That's for a chain fountain
height of 30 centimeters. I'll get into the derivation
of that 0.1 Newtons later. But the point is every
time the display refreshes, it changes by an amount that
is substantially greater than the extra force required for the chain fountain to
rise, according to my theory. Even worse, there's a delay in the readout of about half a second. I mean maybe if I spent even
more money on a force gauge, one that has a USB out that just spits out every one of those thousand
readouts per second, then maybe I could get something. But even then I have to
worry about that delay and lining it up with
the footage on the camera and all that sort of stuff. Basically, it's a really hard problem. But what I can do is use the force gauge in the horizontal experiment and get a reading just at the very end. Here we get a maximum
reading of 0.36 Newtons and that's certainly
in the right ballpark. In fact, if you look at this
version of the experiment where the chain is presumably going at roughly the same speed because it's also powered by the drill, we get a chain of fountain height of, what, a maximum of one meter. And according to my theory, actually Biggins and Warner's theory, a chain fountain a meter high
requires an additional force of about 0.3 Newtons, which correlates really well with the readout we got in this test. But where does that number come from? Why does a chain fountain of
around a meter height require an extra force from the
part of around 0.3 Newtons? Well, I won't go into the derivation, but using the equations from
Biggins and Warner's paper, you get that the extra
force required from the part is equal to that linear
density of the chain multiplied by the height of the fountain multiplied by g. In other words, the weight
of this bit of chain. And that makes intuitive sense. If you want to lift a chain that high, you have to work against its weight. One meter of this chain has a
mass of about 0.03 kilograms. That's a weight of about 0.3 Newtons. And so according to
Biggins and Warner and me, that's the force required from the pot to raise a chain fountain of one meter. It's also why a chain
fountain of 30 centimeters requires about 0.1 Newtons
as I mentioned earlier. In Mehdi's followup video, he mentions that no one has yet explained why the maximum velocity
that the chain reaches is quite low, or at least it's low compared to the terminal
velocity of the chain if it was just falling through the sky. - Steve hasn't provided any other reason for this constant speed like it's nothing. - Actually, it's quite easy to explain, and it has nothing to do
with a chain fountain. It's possible to derive the maximum speed of any
chain falling from a pile whether there's a fountain effect or not. Consider the setup where there's already a long piece of chain dangling. That length of chain feels a
force downwards from gravity, but there's another force
resisting that motion. The force is provided by
the inertia of the chain that is being pulled from the pile. In other words, the
chain in the pile resists being pulled into motion. And that makes sense. We tend to think of force
as mass times acceleration, and that's true, but force is also just the
rate of change of momentum. So the fact that momentum is
being imparted into the chain that is pulled from the pile, that requires a force. And that force is provided by the chain being pulled down by gravity. In the beginning those
forces are unbalanced, so the chain accelerates. But as the chain increases in speed, every new bit of chain
that leaves the pile is imparted with more and more momentum because it's leaving
with more and more speed. And so the inertia of the
chain in the pile provides a greater and greater opposing force to the chain falling under gravity. Eventually, at a certain speed, the force required to bring the chain from the pile to that speed matches the force of gravity pulling
down on the dangling chain. And that is the maximum
speed of the chain. It falls out of the math that that speed is equal to the square root of the height of the chain
drop multiplied by g. Towards the end of
Mehdi's most recent video he shows this brilliant
demonstration from Peter Steinkamp of a chain fountain rising from a chain that is draped over a rod. And that's really remarkable because clearly there's a chain fountain, and clearly, to me at least,
there's no lever mechanism. So this shows a chain fountain
without a lever mechanism. So does this prove me wrong? Well, as you might imagine,
I don't think it does. I think that for the
chain fountain to rise, there needs to be an
additional force from the pot or in this case, there needs to be an
additional force from the rod. In the case of a chain rising from a pot, I think that force mostly comes
from that lever mechanism, which I talked about earlier. If you want more details
about that by the way, I talk about it more in
the previous two videos. But in the case of the rod, I think there is still an extra force. But I don't think it's
from the lever effect. I think it's from, well, if I had to give it a name, I would say the pulley mechanism. This is just my first
guess at what's going on. But look what happens here
as this chain moves up. This loop also moves up. And that makes intuitive sense that's the behavior that we would expect, but as we've seen before, eventually the chain will
start to flow through the loop, as well as the loop moving up. Like here when I pull on
the end of this chain, the loop moves up, but also the chain starts
to flow through the loop. Let's lay this out on the floor so we can see what's going
on a bit more easily. So imagine this is up and this is down. Here is the pipe. So initially as this chain is
moving up, this loop recedes, but then it starts to flow
through the loop as well. So this bit of chain starts to pull down. Obviously, if this point wasn't here, then you would get the
same thing happening again. This loop would recede as
this bit of chain moves down. But it can't because
the rod is in the way. So the rod feels an
additional downward force from the chain. And every action has an
equal and opposite reaction, so the rod pushes back up on the chain. And what's great is you
can see it in action. Look, this bit of chain here before it's even that bit of
chains turn to start moving, it's already moving upwards a bit. And this additional outward
motion each time adds up. And so the chain fountain grows. You might say, well, hold on, the force pulling on this bit of chain isn't coming from the rod. It's coming from this bit of chain. And there's a sense in which that's right. This downward force is being redirected into an upward force on this bit of chain. But you can't just redirect a force. In mechanics, all the
forces have to balance. A downward force can't just
become an upward force. In other words, it's the
upward force from the rod that does the redirecting. And if you studied dynamic
problems in pulleys, that's the kind of balancing you would do. And so I believe that
if you were to remove the force from the rod, then the fountain would disappear. You can remove the force from
the rod by removing the rod, but as in previous videos, you can't do that on earth because it would all just
fall down under gravity. It's another good
candidate for an experiment to do on the international space station. But in the absence of that, we can once again run a simulation. It's interesting that Mehdi didn't mention the simulations in my previous video in his most recent video. Why didn't you mention
the simulations Mehdi? Mm? Why didn't you mention the simulations? With the rod in place, the simulation does indeed
produce a chain fountain. But look, when you remove the rod, but also turn off gravity
in the red rectangle, the fountain disappears. Thanks again to Maarten
Baert for these simulations. And that's it for this video. Was it enough to convince you? More importantly, was it
enough to convince Mehdi? It all makes sense Mehdi. It all makes sense. Trying to figure out the explanation for a phenomenon in this adversarial way has been really enlightening. Like with that horizontal comparison tests that I was doing with the space up chain and the bunched up chain, I thought that was good. And it's important in science to try and look for the
ways in which you're wrong. And I thought I was good at that, for looking for my own mistakes. But, clearly, I'm just not as motivated to find mistakes in
that stuff as Mehdi is. And that's thanks to the adversarial way that we're doing it. So that's a really good lesson that I've learned from Mehdi and of course I've learnt
loads of really great lessons, mostly about electrical engineering from Mehdi's channel ElectroBoom. I'm sure by now you've checked it out, but if you haven't, you really must. His videos are great. The link is in the description, but it's also on screen now. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe. And the algorithm thinks that
you'll enjoy this video next. (upbeat music) 