“They look exactly like us.” Jordan Peele’s Us is
a cautionary tale for our society – it’s warning us to change
the way we’re going, or what we’re seeing here
could very easily be US. “There’s a family in our driveway.” Horror films are all about
the return of the repressed. They bring out our
buried fears and demons, and force us to
look them in the face. In Us, Peele goes further and puts our own face
on what we’ve repressed. He makes us reckon with
the guilt that we’ve buried, not just as individuals,
but as a country. The title has
a dual meaning – it’s both ourselves “It’s us.” and U.S.,
the United States of America. Where Get Out was
a symbolic horror designed to make us
think about race, Us is a parable
of inequality. In this story, there are
literally two Americas. And while at first, we assume middle-class
Adelaide is our heroine, and her Tethered,
Red, is the monster, the film’s ending reveals
it’s far from this simple. In most horror movies, the repressed force that rises up
gets re-repressed at the end, as the hero defeats the monster and cathartically purges
the audience’s fear. But these poor,
scissor-wielding Tethered bent on murdering
their Above-Ground counterparts “Maybe I should cut
something off of you.” aren’t the true monsters – they’re the biggest victims of all. The evil here is the fact that
anyone has been relegated to this miserable, underground,
less-than-a-life. “I have a definite world of things that I’m exploring and
trying to say with this film all relating to our duality
as human beings, and the guilt and sins that
we bury deep within ourselves.” Likewise, in our society, while the Other may look
very different to us, this film is reminding us that those differences
are superficial, caused only by
divergent experiences. In reality,
we are all the same and we are complicit in the mistreatment of
any of our fellow humans. So we leave Us feeling
viscerally shaken up, looking at OURSELVES
in a new light. Because we have to ask:
what if we’re the enemy? Which side are you on? [Singing]
“Which side are you on? Which side are you on?” to get a full month
of Mubi for free! Us ends with a twist
that perfectly encapsulates the movie’s “which side
are you on” question. Adelaide and her Tethered, Red,
face off in a balletic showdown. But after Adelaide triumphs, the defeated Red starts to
whistle “the Itsy Bitsy Spider”, the song young Adelaide
was whistling the day of her traumatic encounter
with the funhouse mirror girl. After Adelaide takes her son
Jason out of hiding, he looks at her like
he’s not sure who she is – just as he looked
at her earlier when she killed
one of the Tethered with a little too much zest. Finally, as the family
is driving away, Jason stares at his mother,
putting the pieces together, as we finally see the full flashback
of Adelaide’s childhood memory. That day, the Tethered girl
attacked the original Adelaide and took her place. So the above-ground
Adelaide we know was in fact the Tethered, while Red was the original girl
who had her life stolen from her. “…like she’s getting closer.” “Who? The mirror girl?” Looking back, we can see
hints of Adelaide’s true identity. After that day,
Adelaide’s parents worried because their little girl
stopped talking, apparently due to PTSD. But this was actually because
the Tethered Adelaide couldn’t talk, as the Tethered don’t speak English,
but have their own moaning language. On the beach, Adelaide says
it’s hard for her to talk sometimes. Now we know she means this literally,
as she learned English later. Meanwhile Red can speak English,
unlike the rest of the Tethered, but her voice sounds
hoarse from disuse. “Run.” Still, apart from small hints, we can’t tell that this Adelaide isn’t the so-called “real”
or original one. And that sends a crucial message: the differences between
these two groups of people are circumstantial, purely the result of
having versus not having. In our world, too,
we may allow ourselves to tolerate injustice against
Others who feel removed from us. On some level maybe we tell ourselves
that those Others aren’t really like us, so that we can look the other way
and go on with our day. But Us is not allowing us to look away – it’s saying to viewers with
a comfortable middle-class life, we are all the same. So if you’d ended up on
the wrong side of that dividing line, you’d be the Other,
and the Other would be you. What’s most interesting
about this ending is that it leaves us
snot knowing how to feel. Did the good guy win,
or the villain? The relief we might feel
after the big fight is fleeting, as the person we thought
was the monster was really a victim, while our hero stole someone’s life
and then murdered that person. Still, we can hardly blame Adelaide
for doing what she had to do to get out of that
miserable underground. So who is the hero? By building up our identification
with this “regular” family [Singing]
“I got five on it… That’s a classic right there.” and then flipping the script on us, Peele is making us ask
a very uncomfortable question – if we align more with Adelaide’s
family in this scenario, does that make US the villains? What if we are not the hero in this story? Thus we come to realize that in cheering for Adelaide
to destroy Red, we were rooting to preserve
an unequal system in which the upper classes
are saved while the rest are lost. In Us, we see inequality
taken to its logical extreme. When Gabe asks the Tethered, “What are you people?” Red answers,
“We’re Americans.” Yet, there are two separate
Americas in the film, and only one gets
to see the sky. The other half gets monstrous
recreations of a natural life. So the underground place here
literalizes and gives visual form to the “sunken place” of Get Out. “You live in –” “The sunken place.” It’s expanding on the idea that
certain people in our society are relegated to
a less-than existence where they are denied control
of their bodies and lives. At first, as we’re watching,
we may think that Adelaide’s PTSD is a stand-in for the experience
of being black in America, or the complex identity
of the black middle-class. But while racial dynamics DO
play a part in what we’re seeing, more fundamentally,
this is a story about the dangerously stark
divide in our country. The Tethered represent the Other,
whether that Other is defined by race, immigration, poverty,
or something else. But these two Americas are CONNECTED,
as the name “the Tethered” implies. The middle-class family who we follow
are seemingly innocent people. “What does ‘I got five on it’ mean?” “It’s about drugs.” “It’s not about drugs. It’s a dope song. Don’t do drugs.” Yet the sin at the center of all this
IS their middle-class obliviousness. Our heroes have done wrong
by going on with their lives while allowing the suffering of others
who are literally just like them. If you’re privileged and ignore
that others are underprivileged, you’re denying your innate bond
to the rest of your people. Adelaide’s husband Gabe in
his Howard University sweatshirt, not realizing the seriousness of the situation
and trying to offer the Tethered cash, embodies this dangerous
lack of awareness. Moreover, as we’ve seen,
the Adelaide we know had to steal another’s place
to be where she is. So the implication is that
there’s a kind of implied violence to being one of the haves – an extent to which
our unequal society is a zero-sum game. Elisabeth Moss’ Kitty s the kind of woman
who comments on how delicious the rose is, “Hey, I think it’s vodka o’clock.” but after her shadow Dahlia murders her, there’s a touching moment of the Tethered
putting on Kitty’s fancy lip gloss… She also cuts her face,
mimicking the plastic surgery Kitty’s had. These creepy yet tender moments
reveal to us what’s at the core of this uprising: How is this woman who’s never
seen lip gloss in her entire life not going to hate that woman
who’s always had everything? The homeless man on the beach has
“Jeremiah 11:11” written on his sign. In addition to providing another
visual mirror through its digits, “Coincidences? Since we’ve been here,
they’ve been happening more and more.” the verse reads: “Therefore thus saith the Lord: ‘Behold, I will bring evil upon them,
which they shall not be able to escape; and though they shall cry unto Me,
I will not hearken unto them.” These fire-and-brimstone words
sound pretty apt for what we witness, but if look at the verse right before this,
we also get a little more context. Quote: “ They have turned back
to the iniquities of their forefathers, who refused to hear My words,
and they went after other gods to serve them.” So this is getting at the theme
of the sins of our ancestors. That final moment of Jason
becoming aware of his parent’s sins represents the way that all children eventually have to reckon
with their ancestors’ legacy and if they do lead a comfortable life with the truth that they have
benefited from an unequal system. Jeremiah 11:10’s mention
of worshiping other gods also speaks to the consumerism
(the worshipping of luxury and materialism) that seems to be punished here. Us is not just telling us
we should care about inequality. It’s warning us that sooner or later,
we’re not going to have a choice. The set-up might remind us of
the H.G. Wells’ classic The Time Machine, in which the upper and lower classes
do over time evolve into different species. The underground working-class
descendants the Morlocks feed on the plump,
mindless, above-ground Eloi who descend from the elites. “So this was the destiny of the Eloi… They were being bred by the Morlocks… Cannibalism!” Us is likewise a cautionary tale about
the way that vast inequality endangers us all because if you give people nothing,
they have nothing to lose And if we let the uprising happen,
it will be too late. “Be careful…” “I tend to draw inspiration
from my own fear. At some point, I ask myself what’s
the scariest thing for me personally. And in this case, it was
the idea of seeing myself.” As Peele looks closer
at this fear of The Other, he concludes that it’s actually
based in a fear of oneself. In other words, this Other
that we’re so afraid of is really those aspects of ourselves
that we’ve repressed or denied. So, the Other is us. “We tend to blame the outsider
and blame the other… when in this movie,
the monster has our faces.” The doppelganger of each
member of Adelaide’s family reflects some buried part of them. Jason struggles to light
fire for his magic trick, while his shadow Pluto is
a pyromaniac with a scarred face. Gabe’s Tethered,
the primal, wailing Abraham, embodies that pain and forcefulness
that Gabe doesn’t project through his cheery, unthreatening,
goofy-dad persona. “There is a darker self
that we suppress and we suppress it because
we are afraid of what it means. It holds our guilts. And our evil.” In this story the horrors really
do come from within us – Adelaide has repressed
the memory of what she did. She doesn’t know that
she’s the “villain.” And as that memory returns,
she has to face that she’s guilty. So the doubles here represent
the way each person must reckon with their own repressed
darkness and guilt. That’s why each member
of Adelaide’s family must kill their own Tethered. And the idea of the Tethered
are especially scary to us because we’re so uncomfortable
with looking honestly at our own worst selves. “No one really wants to look at
their faults, their guilt, their demons.” “The idea for this movie came from
a deep-seated fear in doppelgangers.” The doppelganger makes
for a terrifying monster because it understands you
and can anticipate what you’ll do. “They look exactly like us.” [Screaming] “They think like us.” “Throughout mythology, doppelgangers often represent bad omens
or a foreshadowing of one’s death. As the film ends, Adelaide smiles,
seemingly okay with what she’s done, perhaps because,
in any fight with a doppelganger, it’s assumed that only one can survive. “They won’t stop until they kill us…
or we kill them.” “When you would have
an encounter like that, you get a sense of
your own mortality. It’s almost like one of
you has to go, right? And you sort of know
that in your bones.” When Adelaide and Red
face off in their dance/ fight, the song we hear
is called “Pas de deux,” inspired by Tchaikovsky, whose Nutcracker is also a story
of entering a nightmare mirror world. And the way the scene
is choreographed, with Red in the darkness, literalizes the feeling of
fighting with your own shadow. “I think the reason Doppelgangers have
always been a source of fear for people is there’s something just
primal and unnatural feeling about seeing yourself.” To express the doppelganger theme,
Peele uses symbols of duality. Most prominently, the central
Instrument of violence in the film is the pair of scissors,
a staple of the horror genre. “There’s a duality to scissors,
both literally and physically. They’re a whole
made up of two parts. But also they lie
in this territory between the mundane
and the absolutely terrifying.” Scissors aren’t just
an image of duality; they’re also an instrument
that creates duality – they cut one thing into two,
just as this movie is full of divides. The Hands Across America demonstration
that inspires the Tethered (while it’s based on an event
that intended to unify the U.S.) creates a barrier, a line of people that
can’t be crossed. On one side is half of America,
and on the other side is the other half. The bunnies are another prominent symbol,
which Peele has said represent duality to him because they’re as adorable
as they are terrifying. "Rabbits… you can tell in their eyes,
they have the brain of like a sociopath." "If you put a rabbit brain in a human body,
you have Michael Myers.” The opening credits showing
the bunnies in cages get at the way the Tethered
are bred as experiments, not viewed as human beings. They’re copies of people without souls,
only allowed a partial life. Adelaide’s daughter Zora wears
two shirts with references to rabbits, one with a white rabbit, and one
with the Vietnamese word for bunny. And some have seen
a connection to Alice in Wonderland, where a white rabbit leads
Alice into an alternate world. The sequel Through the Looking Glass also reminds us of the mirror imagery
running through this film. Peele took inspiration from
many other horror movies when it came to doubles and duality. “Hitchcock, of course...” “Who are you?” “My name is John Ferguson.” “Is this some kind of Gallup Poll?” Peele has said the “Mirror Image”
episode of Twilight Zone, in which doppelgangers
from other universes can come into ours
and take our place, was a key inspiration. “When you were in here before –” “Before? What do you mean before? I’ve never been in here before.” “Honey, you were just in here
a few minutes ago.” He asked his actors to watch
a list of horror films including: The Shining (we can see the influence of
that film’s creepy twin imagery, as well as its theme of
a perverted family turning on itself), home invasion movie
Funny Games by Michael Haneke, The Babadook, It Follows, A Tale of Two Sisters, Let the Right One In, The Birds, The Sixth Sense, Alien, Martyrs, and Dead Again, which deals
with past-life doppelgangers and also features
deadly scissors. We see Jason wearing
a Jaws shirt and when Gabe fights off
Abraham in the water, Peele has said the scene is channeling
the Jaws-inspired fear of, quote, “an open body of water at night.” When young Adelaide is
on the Santa Cruz boardwalk, she hears mention that
a film is shooting nearby, which is apparently The Lost Boys,
in which a threat comes from above, while here, as Peele said,
we get a mirror image of that. The VHS collection we see
at the start includes The Goonies (which also involves tunnels underground
and inspired a crucial speech in the movie -- “Their time, up there. Down here, it’s our time. It’s our time down here.” “It’s our time now.”), as well as C.H.U.D. (Cannibalistic Humanoid
Underground Dweller), which is about once-human creatures
coming up from underneath New York City. The way that pop culture references,
like the Goonies and Hands Across America, have shaped Red’s simplistic plan
emphasize that she’s stuck in childhood, as if after the day
she was kidnapped, she could no longer continue
developing as a person. So after raising these complex questions
of inequality and our repressed guilt, what message does Us leave us with? First of all, the movie is
serving as an alarm bell. It makes us feel this
uprising of the Tethered is an inevitable event, sooner or later,
in one form or another. Our shadows are coming for us. There is only so long you can flee
from your repressed guilt and sins, and, as a people, there’s only so long we can flee from the wrongs
on which we build our society. Like Gabe offering to go to the ATM
after his home is invaded, we might hope we can find
an easy fix for our social ills. But to a certain extent,
this movie is acknowledging that there is no simple or easy solution to
inequality because the wrong is too big. And if a reckoning is coming,
it will be painful. So perhaps the best
response to this movie is to EMBRACE our discomfort. Don’t look for a way to feel better, because there’s a lot we SHOULD
feel uncomfortable about. Meanwhile, we can commit to
the painful exercise of looking inward. “… this country looks at the world,
we have a fear of the outsider. The thing we do not
face often enough Is our part in what’s
wrong with the world.” And most of all, what we
should take from this film is an increased empathy
for the Other. As Adelaide watches the two
children of her Tethered die, she’s overwhelmed by
a spontaneous, deep feeling for them. Even though she’s trying
to kill this shadow family, she grieves for these kids because she knows that
underneath the monstrous facade, there is a person in there. And we can learn from this – it can be all too easy not
to view the Other as human, because that makes
it easier to justify the divides we take for granted. But Us is forcing us to remember
that we are all brothers and sisters, and there’s nothing we can
do to escape that truth. “It’s like there’s this black cloud
hanging over us.” Hey guys, this is Grace. Just click the link in the description below. 