Most of us hear the word "evolution" and think
of the process by which species change and adapt and maybe turn into other species or
go extinct - but that's specifically the evolution of life forms by means of natural selection. The word "evolution" in general just means
"change or development", and there are plenty of other things that can evolve, or change,
and in plenty of other ways. For example, the universe can evolve, that
is, change, according to the laws of physics - galaxies form, planets and moons orbit,
stars explode, etc. This doesn't mean there's any sort of cosmic
"survival of the fittest" going on - that would be natural selection, not evolution. Similarly, the demographic makeup of the United
States can evolve as children are born, young people move to cities, immigrants arrive in
the country, etc. In this sense, evolution just means change,
and no one can deny that these these changes are happening - the evidence is overwhelming! Similarly, around the time Charles Darwin
was doing his research, scientists (including Darwin himself) had begun amassing piles - literally
- of evidence that showed that the nature of life on earth had changed quite significantly
over time: our oldest rocks show no signs of life, while newer and newer rocks reveal
fossilized plankton, seaweed, snails, fish, trees, insects, dinosaurs, mammals, and so
on. There absolutely was and is no denying the
fact that life on earth changes - and change over time is what "evolution" means. What Darwin proposed with his theory of natural
selection was an explanation for HOW this change (which is stupidly well supported by
evidence) could have occurred naturally. You can think of it like the Challenger disaster
of 1986: all the evidence showed that the collection of molecules named "Challenger"
had tragically changed/evolved from a space shuttle and its rocket boosters into a cloud
of gas and debris shortly after launch (though we normally call this kind of evolution "exploding"). The question for scientists at the time was
to understand and explain HOW the explosion had happened so they could prevent it in the
future. Ultimately, it was the Theory of Frozen O-rings
in the Rocket Boosters, popularized by Richard Feynman, that provided a satisfactory explanation
for the cause of the disaster. Now, you're welcome to disagree with Feynman's
explanation for the explosion, or Darwin's explanation for how life on earth changes,
but they're pretty darn good explanations for these incredibly well documented examples
of change in the universe. In the end, the universe will go on evolving
regardless of whether you and I believe in it or understand it, and perhaps the best
thing to do is to remember that it's ok for our beliefs and opinions and understandings
to evolve, too. That's part of life, and it's the way  