Dream of me! Lovely Gahyeon appears! Why are you in the Dreamcatcher company~ Contents prepared by Gahyeon for social distance Challenge to make dalgona coffee! I came to here, the Dreamcatcher company~! Person who feels empty without reaction Our company's staffs... don't let me make it easy. Because it's not funny to make it naturally~ Gather the items from staffs on the 2nd floor! So I'm going to try to get them (though it's cheap and childish) What is it! Of course it's space... Pass on the Mission Paper The first item is spoon! Change to 'Dalgona' from Chinese sweet-and-sour pork game! 2 wins out of 3 games... Do I have to do this twice? Not once?! (Resignation)
(Let's see how far you can go) OK. Let's go upstairs. ★Company attack★ Apricot Gahyeon aim the target. Game begins to be ruthless. (Spoon fairy) Proceeding unilaterally Win somehow, the best thing. (Me first...) You can't. One-way Lee Gahyeon Wrong, but neither knows. Anyway, Gahyeon failed! Gahyeon 2 wins! She got spoons. The next target is? Coffee. Apply for challenge! Pirate roulette game Who's first...? It's me! Ah, no. You first. Faster transition than light (Coffee fairy) For your information, both are timid and easily surprised. Please, one time... please! Sigh with fear I really... Put and turn the doll. (Started without turning) Ominous sound (I want to tease...) Coffee fairy is easily surprised To sow the wind and reap the whirlwind. (I'm innocent) Steal coffee Sudden finish It's win to pick the pirate, right? She created rule. There wasn't the rule how to win. Who got the pirate! (Shameless) The next item is cup! Open a book... Gosh! This is real 'Hit and miss' Where is a book? (Here it is) Dreamcatcher's pictorials of 2019 Asia Tour Let's do it. Pre-checking in case she create rules again (Ask a natural question)
Ah, more poeple? There's also audience, right. Gahyeon is aiming the audience Pictorial open! (Laugh heard from somewhere...) It's me. Though it's me. She's satisfied at her photo Challenge of Cup fairy Cup fairy's open! Cup Fairy's excuse: I thought the back would have an audience, but it went too far... (Unbelievable) Lesson of the Day: Don't laugh at others. How can you unfold the Thanks to part... LOL The next item is milk! The game with milk teacher is Muk Chi Pa! Awkward game opponent Muk Chi Pa. With betting milk. The indispensable thing in dalgona coffee, milk. Excited milk teacher The milk game is not as fun as I thought, so fast forward. Milk teacher fail! Gahyeon win! Eventually the last game The last game item is sugar! Dreamcatcher's song 1 sec... I'm not good at this game... (Laugh heard from somewhere again...) This... This is really strong enemy! (Who listens only Dreamcatcher's songs during commuting) Look at her posture! Fierce battle for seats from the start Each other's fuss about doing it first (Not to rescue)
(It's song's title) The answer is 'MAYDAY' Suddenly appealing herself Speak first... (No, do it.) Suddenly yielding to each other Wait. This is an encore song. Nice catch Elated Gahyeon, correct! Preview the answer: Red Sun That's right. Acknowledging the answer weakly (sugar bragging) What a mean sugar fairy Ah! Gahyeon! Now, shout out the name first. Gahyeon! Wait... Humming melody instead of the title Is it our Korean song? At last, she even doubts. (Unbelivable) She knows the melody, but not title. Is there a choreography? To this song? Imposing demand for hints Is there a choreography? Chance to listen again It was tired. As expected, this is the member's statue. Can she get it right this time again? I can't remember the title!!! This, we did this! Sitting on the sofa. I sat like this. What Gahyeon is thinking Isn't it that we all sat in a straight line? Sugar fairy knows what it is, but doesn't know the title. Great Hint Offering Know it, but Not know it... Really great hint There isn't any title of Dreamcatcher's song! Sugar fairy thought something! Answer is 'July 7th' Pick up the almost correct answer. (Shame) Really easy song Sugar fairy correct the answer very quickly Bluff apricot Polaris! Finally correct! Gahyeon was faster This time is immediately correct without thinking! (Don't know...) I'm looking for Dreamcatcher's member... Sugar fairy's quick shout! But why does Gahyeon answer... Gahyeon wins with the sugar fairy's defeat acceptance! Sugar fairy's deviant attempt Sugar fairy stole many things... Where are the rest? Hey! The rest!!! You put them on your pocket... (The rest things are in here) Sugar fairy's steal When will you make Dalgona coffee... Let's meet Dalgona coffee at second episode... 