Becoming an organised person doesn't happen
overnight. It takes months or even years of building
certain habits to keep your environment neat and organized and be able to manage your time
well. Even if you consider yourself an organized
person, there is always space to improve your methods and routines and try new things that
help you stay on track. Since this is the first video for 2020 I thought
it would be a good idea to present you "One Year to an Organized Life" by Regina Leeds. The special thing about this book is that
it doesn't feel overwhelming. Instead of trying to teach you everything
about organization, it divides different topics for the course of 12 months, giving you simple
weekly and monthly projects to follow so you can tackle different areas of your life and
home separately. The other good thing about this book is that
you can adapt it to your learning or reading rhythm. You'll probably feel like you can't adapt
some of these chapters to your life (for instance September focuses a lot on back-to-school
season for kids), but that means that you can go through the index and decide to extend
some of the chapters throughout a wider span of months. For example, if you feel like you have a lot
of the so-called hidden areas, like basements, garages, laundry rooms, etc, you'll probably
have to dedicate more than one month to cover the organization of those spaces. The book also suggests a bunch of new habits
to implement for at least 21 days straight each month. This can be a little bit of help if you're
struggling with implementing certain routines. Even if you can succesfully organize everything
in your house, you won't be able to keep that organization for long if you are unable to
build strong habits. Since I don't want to spoil the book for you,
I'll cover the January chapter for this video so you can get some motivation to start this
transformation in 2020. In January, Regina Leeds suggests you to focus
on 1) understanding time management and 2) working on the kitchen. Regarding habits, the author suggests you
to pick at least one of the following, and sticking with it for 21 days straight: - Wash dishes rather than leave them languishing
in the sink; - Put your clean dishes away immediately;
- If you use a dishwasher, unload it when its cycle is complete;
- Wipe of the counters after each use; - Once a day, take out the garbage. On the first week of January, your should
be understanding where your time is going and understanding how to use it. You can use a journal or a notepad for this
exercise. Tracking how much time you're spending on
cleaning, sleeping, commuting, scrolling through social media or watching Netflix is a good
way to have a good look at how you‘re spending an invaluable resource that could be used
to reach other goals. Maybe you've always wanted to write a book,
do some volunteer work or learn a language. Cutting back on what's non essential and redirect
that time to more essential tasks is a sign of organization, too. In week two you should be working on creating
schedules and routines. The goal is to create your ideal planning
system by setting up a calendar, planner or other type of organization method, and then
by using that tool, create a routine that is both effective at tackling all of your
to-dos and also giving you enough time to either work on personal projects and taking
care of yourself. Part of this job includes 1) delegating tasks
to someone you trust, 2) cutting back on activities that aren’t giving you joy or are useless
for your daily routine and 3) living your day-to-day life taking into account your future
wellbeing. This last step can be tricky but it’s a
change in your mindset that can be incredibly useful in the future. It can apply to incredibly simple things like
laying out your outfit the night before or organizing a project or a trip step by step
six months ahead before you engage in that activity. Life can be unpredictable and saving planning,
organization or working for when they feel “appropriate”, near the deadline, can
give you a lot of trouble if something else comes up. Take pleasure in preparing for the unexpected
and you’ll have more leverage to work around problems when they arrive. Week three and four are dedicated to the kitchen
and you should be asking so-called “kitchen questions”. Since it’s the first week of January I haven’t
started the organizational section of the book myself so I’ll leave you with a few
topics you can start working on or planning for: 1) You should be analyzing the space around
you and understand how you currently use your kitchen and how you would like to use it. 2) You should then perform a speed elimination
of items that you no longer need or use and 3) set up different areas in your kitchen
according to your needs. 4) Regina Leeds also suggests you to organize
your pantry so it supports your kitchen activities, even if your pantry is just a few shelves
and, finally, 5) Create a shopping list and an emergency
contact list to keep nearby. If you are interested in delving into these
kitchen questions and start working I recommend you to get the eBook version or physical version
of “One Year to an Organized Life”. I’ll be posting updates over the year on
how I’ve been adapting the contents of the book to my own organization methods. [Skillshare sponsor insert] I hope you enjoyed this video and I will see
you next week. Bye guys! 