(instrumental music) - Cut, cut cut cut! Who forgot to pay the apple, this is a black and white film people. And Charlie, Keep it down
it's a silent picture. (crowd mumbling) - Don't let these
illusions trick your eyes. This, is Color Illusions. (upbeat music) Okay, so I've got two
adorable penguins right here. One is gray and white and
the other is inverted color, but I'm throw a little
iceberg in the scene. Now I want you to take
a look at their bellies and tell me which color of
their belly appears darker. You'd actually be surprised to find that they're exactly the
same, both their bellies. And let me prove it by
showing you in a viewfinder, they're both exactly the same color gray. And this is because your brain is accounting for the same color under different lighting circumstances. Now let's move on to a
more colorful illusion. So for this next one, I wannna take this picture right here and create a giant magical
mural on the wall behind me. And we're gonna be doing that
by using the vibrant colors of the Pixma printer by Cannon. And they're our sponsor of today's video. I've got a little trick, in order to help speed up production. Alright, buddy get to work. And I'm gonna have the help
of two of my teammates here. So let's get Keyshawn, and Nick. Let's get to work. (bright upbeat music) Uuu! Okay. That was way more work
than I thought it'd be. But the mural turned out awesome, huh! We've got two seagulls
that you can see here We have a purple seagull and
we have an orange seagull. But what if I told you they're
exactly the same color. What if I also told you
there was a third seagull hidden in this mural, it's right here in the center, smack dab. So if I move this up, it appears to match this
seagull color here of orange, we move down the mural. It looks like it's
changing colors the purple, but that's actually
because on this seagull, we've got orange and
little gradient of purple. And so it changes color appearance of it based on the background that it's against. Pretty cool huh! Okay, flying out of this
illusion into the next. (fast movement) Alright, so we've got
three flavors of donuts in front of me. I've got white vanilla pink,
strawberry and Brown chocolate, but you might've already
caught on that these flavors may not be as they seem. we've got the white vanilla, which is actually maple. Now let's reveal brown chocolate, this is actually a maple doughnut as well. But this third donut is really a surprise, the pink strawberry is
actual, Oh, that's also maple. Would you look at that? So we've got three of the same donuts and this illusion is created by mostly this foreground object,
which is one color. While the background object
is also making an influence. What's also interesting about color is it can alter your mind's
perception of the taste. So pink strawberry. I really shouldn't, but I'm going to. So for this next illusion,
I've got a regular stoplight and this is going to demonstrate how important color is
to be seen in context. So I've got a green,
blue and a red overlay, and here's what I want you to do. I want you to look at
all the stoplight colors and tell me if you see any gray lights, count them up, comment below
how many you're guessing. And now I'm gonna reveal. (soft music) So you can see the three
gray stoplights there, but what's also fascinating is the light that's supposed
to be yellow is actually green. This light is supposed to be
red and it's actually purple. This one is supposed to be
yellow, but it's orange. So it's pretty crazy how
your mind uses the context for it to see the color. And if I pull up the color wheel here, blue is a complimentary color to yellow. So your mind naturally fills
in this gray colorless piece to be yellow. I wannna show you for our next illusion a really sweet negative color trick. So let me invert this. (soft music) The interesting thing about your vision is when you stare at an image long enough, you start to see what's
called an after image. And it's kind of like a ghostly image of the one that you're staring at. And so what I want you to
do for this next illusion for you to experience that
is stare at the center dot, and you're gonna stare at the center dot for about 15 seconds. You're gonna want to make sure your video is in full screen for this part. So stare at this marker
in the center of the image and try not to blink. Okay, so you're staring,
don't get distracted and I'm gonna to count down. I'm gonna to count down from five and wanna get to one I'm in a snap and the image is gonna change, ready? Five, four, three, two, one. Keep your eyes on the center dot and have the colors in the
image, become more normal. Try moving your eyes around, and you'll notice that the colors that you think you're seeing
are actually not there. In fact, if you look around
everything is in gray scale. It's pretty wild how your brain can play such crazy mind tricks on you. When in fact reality is much different for this next illusion, I'm gonna go to the computer because I'm going to show
you a little animation, first, let me turn it to color. So I want you to stare
at the middle blue duck and don't look away from that middle duck. So at first you'll
notice a gap moving along the arrangement of ducks, but right about now you should be seeing a yellow
duck start coming into view, even though it's not there, your mind's filling in the blanks and it becomes so vibrant that you can just reach out and grab it. Oh, rubber ducky. (duck squawks) Now for this next illusion, we have to go into a
world, with Just one color. (taps on the TV) (soft music) Wow! So I am in a monochromatic room right now, which is really trippy because I actually look
completely desaturated because of this special light, which is only admitting
one wavelength, amber. And so it allows you
to do some fun things. When you take a regular flashlight and introduce light back into the room. For me, I can only see these as various grays are on the gray scale, but when I introduced light, it's either they're released
color they're on the shelf. So my next question is, what color is this painting to you? To me, I see a very dark gray, but when I shine the light,
reveals is actually blue and we have the red logo. You can do some other fun painting tricks like this one it's just looks
like a little tree scene with that cute little butterfly, but actually with light, you see that's a chameleon
about to eat the butterfly and a little friend butterfly there. My great grandfather passed
on a painting portrait from the Western days, and it was a... - Good heavenly( indistinct)
put that light out. - well, this has been
the monochromatic room I'm gonna go to another illusion now. So the really cool trick about colors is if you stare at them long enough, they can actually pull
a trick on your eyes like this illusion here. If you're gonna stare at this center star, and by the way, this
works better on a desktop or a larger tablet if you have one, but stare at the star and
you may start noticing the word dream and the
colors start to fade away, but comment below if that worked for you. So I've got one more final
illusion for you right over here. And this is a little seizure alert. If you are prone to seizures, do not watch this next part, Cause it's gonna be a little
animation that's flashy. But here is the next illusion
follow the directions. So I want you to stare at
this animation of the Z logo. Don't look away, you can keep staring. Now just a few seconds, I'm gonna cut to another image and you should see some
crazy warping happening. So okay, three, two, one. (instrumental music) 