Existentialist philosopher Albert Camus 
once wrote that, “There is but one truly serious philosophical
problem and that is suicide. Judging whether life is or is not worth living amounts to answering the fundamental question of philosophy.” For Tony, the main character of Ricky Gervais' After Life, the answer to this problem is clear. How’s it going? I’m still alone, angry, in pain. I can’t wait to end it all. You? I’m fine, thanks. Tony doesn’t see any meaning to his life,
or human life in general. In fact, he’s rather cynical about it. We’re a disgusting, narcissistic, selfish parasite, and the world would be a better place without us. It should be everyone’s moral duty to kill themselves. If you’re watching this, then I’m not
around anymore. The reason for Tony’s nihilistic outlook, his belief that there is no meaning or intrinsic value to existence, is the recent loss of his wife. He’s not himself at the minute, to be honest. Tony is my brother in law, he was married
to my sister in law, Lisa, who died. He was obviously devastated, suicidal. Grief, of course, is a source of suffering
powerful enough to warrant its own discussion, but for the purpose of this video I want to approach as a driving force for existential uncertainty and nihilism as I believe that is what After Life 
is ultimately about. I. A Grief Observed Her absence is like the sky, spread over everything. 
– C.S. Lewis In A Grief Observed, author C.S. Lewis documented his own grieving process after the death of his wife, and as is also the case with Tony, the experience feels very existential in nature. No one ever told me about the laziness of
grief - he wrote. I loathe the slightest effort. Not only writing but even reading a letter
is too much. Even shaving. What does it matter now whether my cheek is
rough or smooth? I was married for 25 years. It was brilliant. Now it’s over. To Tony, his wife and his marriage gave a
great meaning to his life, it gave him purpose and happiness, 
and with her passing, all that was gone. It’s not so much that his wife was the only
thing that gave his life meaning, but rather that her death made him question 
the nature of meaning in general, thereby leading him into deeper existential uncertainty. C.S. Lewis as well let his mind wander towards
the more complicated existential questions, and observed that,
Reality, looked at steadily, is unbearable. And how or why did such a reality blossom (or fester) here and there into the terrible phenomenon called consciousness? Why did it produce things like us who can
see it and, seeing it, recoil in loathing? It is strange think about how, as far as we know, 
we do not choose to be born. For Albert Camus, the notion was indeed 
an absurd one; to be involuntarily thrown into existence, to be imprisoned inside a physical body, tied to a specific time and place and family, and to have a consciousness that is
aware of all this. He therefore argued that it is legitimate
and even necessary to ask; is there a purpose to this? Is there a meaning to life? II. The Great Beyond If man had no eternal consciousness, what would life be but despair? – Soren Kierkegaard If death is just the end what’s the point? What’s the point in what? Livin. You might as well just kill yourself. One common way the question of the meaning
of life is answered is through the existence of God, preferably one with a grand plan for
human destiny that extends beyond our material lives. It’s certainly a comforting answer, as it
ensures that at some point, however indefinite, everything will fall into place, 
life’s mysteries will be resolved, and all will be good. But in the face of deep sorrow, even devout Christian C.S. Lewis found little comfort in his religion, and was particularly annoyed by the so often offered consolation that his wife is now in God’s hands. He writes that, if that were so,
She was in God’s hands all the time, and I have seen what they did to her here. Do they suddenly become gentler to us the
moment we are out of the body? And if so, why? Albert Camus went even further and desired to find meaning in life by sticking with what he knows and not making a leap of faith. He emphasized that,
Seeking what is true is not seeking what is desirable. And argued that if one’s hope for meaning
were dependent on an unknown higher force, One must, like the donkey, feed on the roses
of illusion. You know how you don’t believe in all those
other Gods I mentioned, that’s how I don’t believe in yours. It is clear that Tony, very much like Camus,
is not a religious man and wants to seek meaning in life without appealing 
to hope from the great beyond. Therefore, I will try to do the same. III. An Absurd Reasoning At any streetcorner the feeling of absurdity can strike any man in the face. – Albert Camus We’re both having the fish fingers and beans please. That’s only on the children’s menu, I’m afraid.
- Yeah, I’m not very hungry. I can’t let you order that. What’d you mean? Without appealing to God or making the leap
of faith, what we’re left with is the absurd; the clash between our human consciousness
and an unknown, unexplained universe, seemingly devoid of meaning. When taken at face value, this universe, and
in particular, the great drama of human existence, is really rather ridiculous as After Life
so charmingly shows us. I can eat what children eat, can’t I? Yeah but it’s only 4.99. Yeah I know, ‘cause it’s a smaller portion. I’m paying child’s prices, but I’m getting
a children’s portion. We see it in the apparent uselessness of Tony’s job. Tony come on, what’s going on? We’re putting out a free local newspaper
that no one cares about. Gonna buy drugs with that 
and dump the papers in the skip? I should probably dump them first then buy the drugs, 
I'd forget otherwise won't I? And most importantly, we see it in Tony’s
interactions with other people. Wow, loss for words, it's just... At certain moments of lucidity – Albert
Camus remarked about other people the mechanical aspect of their gestures, their meaningless pantomime makes silly everything that surrounds them. You wonder why they are alive. Why are they alive? This is where we return to the problem of suicide, which for Camus, was as legitimate and necessary to face as the question of the meaning of life. Me, I would quite happily die right now. If I had enough money, I would take as many drugs as I possibly could. Generally speaking, suicide is still a highly
controversial and obviously complex topic. This is in part because ending your own life
has historically been deemed unethical, especially in religious traditions where the universe
is given higher meaning by God. For what is rightful is then determined by
living in accordance to that higher meaning, and therefore, suicide would be a sin; 
a rejection of your divine purpose. Even in our more secular times, there is still
an implicit sense of inherent value to human life, a vague belief in some meaning that
makes suicide feel like a moral violation. Don’t say that. Don’t even joke about things like that. What? Why? What’s? This is also reflected in our language; in English for example, suicide is often phrased as something one commits, in the same way that someone, linguistically speaking, commits a crime. In Dutch and German, the words for suicide
even literally translate to self-murder. But from a nihilistic perspective, if there
is no discernable value to our being and if nothing we do has any 
perceivable cosmic significance, then the act of suicide should be trivial, and it would be normal to wonder, 
as Camus posed it; Should I kill myself or get a cup of coffee? Right, okay, but you didn’t kill yourself,
did you? So clearly, you know, something made you stop. The look on the dog’s face. She was hungry, so I thought I’d better feed her. For Tony, the realization that suicide is
not something controversial, but is actually a perfectly logical option to end his suffering didn’t result in his immediate death, but it did result in a revelation. If I become an arsehole, and I do and say
whatever the fuck I want, for as long as I want, and then when it all gets too much,
I can always kill myself. This is where embracing ultimate 
meaninglessness and nihilism becomes an invitation to live 
without caring about anything, to disregard all constructs of morality 
and other socially imposed limitations. You can’t just go around being rude to people. You can, though. That’s the beauty of it. In a way, Tony has achieved total freedom. IV. Lords of Our Tiny Skull-Sized Kingdoms Everybody is identical in their secret unspoken belief that way deep down they are different from everyone else. – David Foster Wallace When C.S. Lewis looked back on his initial notes, he was appalled at his self-pity, 
and wrote; From the way I’ve been talking anyone would think that H.’s death mattered chiefly for its effect on myself. It reminds me of author David Foster Wallace, who talked about the insidiousness of 
this kind of self-centeredness, and our tendency to see ourselves and our own struggles as what matters most. Think about it: there is no experience you
have had that you are not the absolute center of. Other people’s thoughts and feelings have
to be communicated to you somehow, but your own are so immediate, urgent, real. On this subject, Camus also pointed out; It is probably true that a man remains 
forever unknown to us and that there is in him something irreducible 
that escapes us. We don’t know what they’re feeling do we? They don’t know. So just in case, be nice to them, eh? While it is understandable that our default
state is a self-centered one, this doesn’t mean we don’t have a choice in how we perceive the world around us, and the people within it. For having consciousness in a universe without
ultimate meaning really means having the freedom 
to create your own. Come to the pub, me and Len are going for lunch.
- No. We used to go to the pub all the time. No, someone will make me angry and that’s
the day ruined. And the problem with Tony’s kind of nihilism is that when you choose to see everything as meaningless, choose to see anyone as a ridiculous 
expression of the absurd, it’s going to be extremely difficult to not be
annoyed all the time. Sorry I can’t concentrate with that… 
fucking hell. They’re crisps, they’re crunchy. Yeah, but why does he have to do all that.. It’s this kind of thinking that amplifies our default state, that demands its own importance, and closes us off from everyone else. I don’t even know what you’re fighting anymore.
I don’t get this, okay? There is no enemy in this story. This is—You’re just doing this to yourself. I’m in pain allright, I’m in fucking pain
all the time. V. The Really Important Kind of Freedom The capital-T Truth is about life before death.
– David Foster Wallace As David Foster Wallace explains, there are different ways of thinking, different ways
to exercise our freedom in the face of the absurd and the world that seems hell-bent
on getting in our way. If you’re aware enough to
give yourself a choice, you can choose to look differently at this fat, dead-eyed, over-made-up lady who just screamed at her kid in the checkout line. Maybe she’s not usually like this. Maybe she's been up 3 straight night holding the hand of her husband who's dying of bone cancer. So the next time you’re rude to some waitress
for getting your order wrong, or make someone feel bad for saying something stupid, just know that they might have just failed an exam, or been made redundant, or found out their
mum’s got cancer. Of course, none of this is likely, but it’s
also not impossible. The only thing that’s capital-T True is that you get to decide how you’re gonna try to see it. It is here that Tony comes to realize that,
even within the limits of nihilism, we can find the means to move beyond it. It is however not found in a great 
declaration of meaning, nor in some profound understanding of the universe, it is found in the realization that it’s just us, 
we’re all we’ve got. But it’s not just all about you, is it? That’s what I’m saying. We’re not just here for us, 
we’re here for others. Fundamentally speaking, we are all in the
exact same situation. We are all born into life with the same emptiness, the same longing to resolve questions 
that will never be answered. And although the inner worlds and struggles
of other people aren’t fully accessible to us, as Camus pointed out, we can discern a pattern, 
we can choose to learn more about them and in that process, know them a little better, 
or rather; misunderstand them a little less completely. Again, not a grand revelation, but it’s
what we’re given, and it’s enough. It’s enough to see that others too face obstacles in life, that they too experience tragedy, and sorrow, and pain. Most people are all right. They’re just having a bad day. Sometimes they don’t think, they get caught
up in their own lives. They’re just trying to survive. It’s enough to see how others are making
a sincere effort, how they are trying to help each other 
struggle a little less. That’s all I’m doing here, okay? I’m doing my best trying to make you happy. And it’s enough to learn how everyone 
finds their own reasons, however silly or small they might seem on the surface, to make their lives worth living. What’d you love? Having a laugh. Really? Yeah. Kevin Hart. From this point of view, even Tony’s local newspaper, 
the once seemingly useless effort, becomes an important reminder that 
everyone has a story, everyone is looking for meaning, 
for significance. Life throws you these interesting little things,
doesn’t it? You can’t feel sorry for yourself. Got to keep going. The challenge is to keep this awareness 
front and center, to make the conscious decision to experience 
life as meaningful. You can’t change the world, 
but you can change yourself. To reiterate one more time, none of this is
about making a grand philosophical statement, it’s about surviving what David Foster Wallace
called the day to day trenches of adult existence. It’s a practical guide to finding some 
meaningful form of happiness, and in a universe where the only real certainty is that we are all struggling towards that same goal, the best source for happiness is found in each other. After Life shows us the importance of 
helping and inspiring others; either directly through kindness 
and expressions of gratitude. Cheers Matt. Thanks for never giving up. Or indirectly by leading by example. I love how much you love your wife and I can’t wait for someone to love me as much as you love your wife. For David Foster Wallace, this is what matters most. The really important kind of freedom involves
attention and awareness and discipline, and being able truly to care about other people
and to sacrifice for them, over and over, in myriad petty little unsexy ways every day. And in the end, Tony too, finally comes to see this, 
and begins his journey towards a happier life. And even though I’m in pain, it’s worth sticking around to maybe make my little corner of the world a slightly better place. Happiness is amazing. It’s so amazing, it doesn’t matter if
it’s yours or not. And so, the first season of After Life 
comes to its conclusion, a life-affirming story that ultimately tells us that while we may not understand the strange absurdity that is human existence, we can carry each other
through it nonetheless. All we’ve got is each other. We’ve got to help each other struggle through
till we die, and then we’re done. Good people do things for other people, 
that’s it. The end. If After Life shows us anything, 
it’s that everyone has a story, and the great virtue of film and television is that they can articulate those stories in ways that remind us of that fact 
and bring us closer together. To find such stories, stories that take us
on a journey that is not only transformative for their main characters, but can also be
transformative for us, the audience, 