Hello, and today in this video (which has been 
sponsored by ExpressVPN, but more of that later), I am going to talk on the topic of ... gladiators. Yes. Now, you know at this point something 
that I don't, you know how long this video is. I dare say even before you clicked on it you saw 
a little number in the corner of your screen. But as I am speaking now I have no idea 
how long this is ... no, I have some idea, I think this one's going to 
be pretty long, so hold onto your hats. So 'gladiator', what does the word mean? 
Well, it's pretty clear really: as you'd imagine, 
it means an unrepentant cannibal. Oh, no, no, wait a minute, that was a joke! 
No, 'gladius' is Latin for sword, and so a gladiator would be 
a man who uses a sword. So swordsman is a very accurate and 
straightforward definition of the word gladiator. But there's more to it than that, isn't it? Because we know gladiators as people who 
fought for the entertainment of the masses. Actually, that's not all they fought for, 
there was a ritual element to it, and sometimes they fought in front 
of quite small numbers of people. But yes, it's someone who fought for 
ritual and/or entertainment reasons, ... is showing a display of martial skill 
so that the witnesses can appreciate that display for itself. 
It's not actually to any military purpose. Now, gladiators fought for about 
a thousand years. So if gladiating (which is now a verb 
because I've just used it as one), if gladiating were a really stupid idea, then it probably 
wouldn't have lasted a thousand years, would it? I mean not if all those people knew about it, 
and lives depended on it. Although that said, it's not exactly proof 
that it wasn't a stupid idea either, because a lot of very stupid ideas that lives did depend on 
like, oh I don't know, the Four Humours in medicine, or the fact that flies have four legs, 
or the whole of astrology. Yeah, there were some very stupid ideas 
that did hang around for a very long time. So the fact that gladiating lasted for 
(gladiation, there's another word) lasted for a thousand years, doesn't 
necessarily mean that it was a good idea. Now, there's quite a long thin tail end, ... the 
height of gladiation was the 1st and 2nd centuries AD. That was when the huge gladiatorial events took place, 
and of course most gladiators died, and a lot of them. At the height, something like 8,000 people 
were dying in the arena every year. So how can we explain that vast amount of carnage? 
Well, that's what this video is about. Now the ancients disagree as to 
how gladiation got started. When I was doing my degree in archaeology, 
I remember being taught that gladiatorial fighting started with the Etruscans 
in the region known as Etruria. I'd love to be able to show you a simple map of Etruria. It's north of Rome. It's sort of here, but at other 
times it included this bit, and this bit, but anyway. You see it was a confederation of cities, so putting a 
border around an area doesn't really make much sense. But anyway, so there's Etruria, roughly. And south of it is Campania, which is a rival 
location for the origin of the gladiatorial games. And in between you can see where Rome was, 
in the Latin region. ... But that's a gross simplification by the way, there 
was an awful lot of overlap and changes over time, but there you go, I'm trying to keep it simple. So the Etruscans had funeral rites 
it seems when gladiators would fight, perhaps to the death, at somebody's funeral. 
So why would you do that? Well, I suggest that the reason is 
it's 100% proof that you are really high status. Think about it, that is something which 
can only happen at a small number of funerals. If every time some guy died, 
a load of other guys had to die as well, then after a few generations 
there wouldn't be any men left. You'd have a population entirely of women, 
and where's the fun in that? So I don't think that it would be possible to 
extend this privilege to more than a tiny minority. Therefore, since everyone would 
know this because they're not daft, they would know that it's 100% proof that you 
must be a person of tremendous significance if other men fight to the death at your funeral. And of course, your living relatives will be able to prove 
that they are part of a very, very important dynasty. They'll be ... showing the world this. Now of course, that's not the way that 
they would voice it. They would say, "Ah no, it's a ritual. It's ... fighting to the memory of the 
departed, and it's something to do with gods, or whatever." But yeah, you are proving you're really 
high status if you have gladiatorial games or fights, duels, at the funeral of one of yours. So that's where possibly it started, and 
that's where I was taught it was started, but the physical evidence for early gladiators 
is mainly down south in Campania. ... And a lot of people point to 
the amount of art, the frescoes, the mosaics, and the mouldings 
on bits of pottery and so forth. Sometimes on quite ordinary 
domestic items like lamps. But also not just low art but really high art as well, very, very good wall paintings - murals, 
and frescoes and carvings of the highest quality. So people in all strata of society got interested 
in gladiators and what they represented. It seems they represented more than just 
a couple of blokes having a scrap. There was something noble in it, ... these gladiators 
were demonstrating some noble human virtue, ... bravery, masculinity, whatever it was. 
Sacrifice perhaps. There was something that they were showing 
the world that was of religious and ritual significance, beyond just, like I say, blokes stabbing each other. Now, I would say that one of the best pieces of 
argument for Campania being the origin of gladiation is the fact that in 73 BC (a significant date), 
in 73 BC within a 35 mile radius of Capua, which was the biggest city in that region, 
and the second biggest in the whole of Italy, there were 12 arenas for gladiatorial combat. Whereas in the whole of the rest of 
Italy combined there were ... two. So yeah, Campania really was the hub. And that was where a guy in 73 BC called Spartacus 
(you might have heard of him), broke out of a certain training camp. 
And then with just 75 of his gladiator mates went up to the top of Mount Vesuvius, 
camped there for a bit. And a load of the local, like the equivalent of the 
National Guard (when the Roman Senate decided that they had better send out a force to 
deal with these, they didn't really send their A Team) so it was a load of the equivalent of 
the National Guard if you like, part-time soldiers, and not all that many of them, 
and they were very overconfident, and yes, the 75 gladiators 
on Mount Vesuvius came down on ropes and, I think the American phrase is, 
handed the Roman's arses to them. So that was very embarrassing, but though 
a lot of people think of it as a gladiator revolt, it was actually really a slave revolt. 
Technically gladiators were all slaves. And as these gladiators went around the country, 
they were encountering more and more slaves and freeing more and more slaves. And about 
one in six of the slaves they met joined them. And so after a while they had an army of 
tens of thousands in it to take on the ... Romans. And they were almost all completely 
ordinary slaves, not gladiators, but just any slave who wanted to fight for freedom. 
It was obviously a hiding to nothing. I think he made possibly a tactical error 
(this is a bit of an aside), he made possibly a tactical error ... they 
killed all the slave owners that they came across. No matter how gentle they were, no matter what political 
persuasion or possible political usefulness they would have had. They just killed them all, 
and I think that was really ... a mistake. Because that just completely justified 
the Romans in doing whatever they needed to do to stop this rebellion, to put it down. The Romans didn't feel that they would 
have to reform anything, change any laws, treat slaves any differently, because if they ... behaved 
so barbarically in such an obviously wrong way that they were completely justified 
in just stamping them out. So I think maybe that was a strategic error 
on the part of Spartacus, Crixus and all the rest. Anyway, that happened in 73 BC. And significantly in 70 BC, just ... a couple of years later, 
that was the first ever amphitheatre, the big stone amphitheatre purpose-built 
for gladiatorial games was built in Pompeii, which is in Campania. So not very far away. Now, the early gladiatorial games 
happened near tombs, and would have been witnessed by just the people 
who needed to know, the various families involved in the funeral, and other people would perhaps 
get to know. It wasn't a mass spectacle at that stage. Livy says that the Romans got into ... gladiatorial games 
sometime around the time of the First Punic War. ... So the Romans themselves 
were actually coming to this later. And it doesn't immediately take on this guise 
of the huge auditorium with vast cheering crowds. Instead there would be perhaps an execution 
or something happening in a marketplace, and they would have some 
gladiatorial fights associated with that. And then they would think, 
"Well, maybe we'll set up some temporary wooden structures, some benches 
or whatever, so that people can watch. And even though ... we're not supposed 
to charge to watch the actual thing, maybe we could charge for the use of 
the benches, of the raised seating." But then that would mean that only the people 
on the raised seating would get to see. And the common people don't, 
and some people thought that that was wrong: everyone should be able to see this execution. 
So there was a conflict of interest there. And after a while people thought, "Well, maybe we 
... want purpose-built arenas for this to happen in." And the first ones went up. The 
first permanent ones were wooden however, so we don't have any of them, 
none of those have survived. And who would have been invited 
to these early gladiatorial games? Well, one of the reasons you put on 
gladiatorial games is to bribe people. But you don't have to actually bribe all the masses, 
you just bring along the people who count. So in the early days it would be Tribunes, People's Tribunes, 
people like that. People with really important votes. You get those bribed by 
putting on a good show for them, or promising them a good show, 
and that would often do the job. You didn't have to necessarily 
win over the whole mob. But Julius Caesar, who came later, 
he saw the potential for winning over the whole mob (not uniquely, there were others into it as well). ... One reason you put on games is to win 
the favour of the crowds or the key voters. And if you wanted to get ahead in politics, in Roman politics, 
putting on some games was a very good forward step. Now, the wooden one in Rome burnt down in 64 AD, 
and got replaced by this building. You know what this building is? Of course 
you recognise it, yes, this is the Amphitheatre of Flavius, or the Flavian Amphitheatre. What's that? The Colosseum? No, this is not 
the Colosseum, this is the Flavian Amphitheatre. But today it usually gets referred to, 
erroneously, as the Colosseum. In fact the Colossus, after which it has 
been erroneously named, was a huge statue (that's what Colossus means, as in Colossus of Rhodes, 
you know, Wonder of the World, ever so big) there was a huge statue of Nero, 
well I say of Nero, originally of Nero, but of course various megalomaniacs had decapitated 
the statue and replaced its head with their own. Not their own actually. A very large sculpture of their 
own head, they didn't put their own ... that would be weird. And so anyway, so it's erroneously called 
the Colosseum. It was the ... Flavian Amphitheatre. And this was a purpose-built building 
for holding gladiatorial displays in. And so you can see that by the time something 
this enormous gets built in the centre of Rome, this is big business. I mean, that's an 
extremely expensive building to construct, so you're going to have to generate an awful lot of 
income to get your money back on an investment like that. ... So it started off in marketplaces and tombs, and 
then went to the arenas, and the arenas were wooden, and then they became the big stone amphitheatres. And the Amphitheatre of Flavius 
could hold comfortably 50,000 people. That's about the same number as today fits into St. James' Park, 
the football ground where Newcastle United plays. And Wembley is about 90,000, so Wembley is bigger. 
But actually you could at a pinch maybe get 80,000 into the Flavian Amphitheatre, so not much fewer 
than even today's National Stadium in Britain. Although to set this in context, in the Circus Maximus, where the horse racing 
happened in Rome, you could fit 150,000. Yeah, sport was big in Roman times, and it happened 
on a scale that rivals modernity, quite impressively. So, ... oh, and how did they ... pay 
for the massive Colosseum? (Not the Colosseum, it's the Flavian Amphitheatre) 
Flavian Amphitheatre? Well, apparently the Jews revolted in Judea, 
and after that war, they put that down, they looted so much loot off the Jews 
they were able to pay for the Flavian Amphitheatre. Anyway. Gladiatorial combat was getting pretty big. By 174 BC 
there was an event with 74 gladiators over three days. Although that's ... still only 12 fights a day, 
so that's not a huge number of fights a day. 12 fights a day doesn't sound so huge does it? But 74 gladiators 
over a three day event, that makes it sound really big. So clearly they were taking their time, 
and there were other things to see. There would be an awful lot of other sideshows, 
they would be drawing it out a bit. Now at first it was often referred to as 
a 'munus', that is to say it was a duty. That's what the word means: a duty, an obligation 
if you like. There was a duty to entertain the public. So if you were a rich person in Rome, 
particularly one who wanted a particular public office, then you had a duty to entertain the masses. It was something that you were expected 
to put on, quite often out of your own pocket. Because an awful lot of policies 
put forward by Roman politicians, those same Roman politicians 
were expected to pay for. If you say, "I think we should have lots of 
really good drains in the centre of Rome. Elect me and I'll see that those drains happen, 
and I will pay for them." Eeek. But the top politicians in Rome were very, very rich. 
So much richer than people are today, comparatively. So you could put on ... games 
as a promise to the people: "Elect me and you will get 
some really, really good games." Of course this was a promise 
that you had to deliver on. Later on, things became controlled more and more 
by the state, and they became state funded. And there were state-funded gladiatorial games. 
But in the early days they were private. And what's more, they could be private, 
any private individual could own and train gladiators. But later on when the state started ... taking over, 
you needed the right permits to own and train gladiators. But with the right connections 
you could get those permits. Now if you wanted a certain office, 
you might be required to put up perhaps two-thirds of 
the cost of a gladiatorial contest. ... In other words it's like the price of entry. You want this job? 
Okay, it'll cost you this, and the money goes to the games. But actually what they're doing is 
they're keeping poor people out of the job. You can see how this was ... the way the system worked. 
And you put on good games and you might get re-elected. Now in 65 BC a certain 'aedile' 
(or "aedile", there are various ways of saying it), called Julius Caesar, (he was an up-and-coming type 
and he was quite a showman, and he was fearsomely rich, 
I mean just, wow, was he rich) he decided to expand a bit, 
do things a bit more ... on an impressive scale. And so he had 320 gladiators, an 
absolutely unprecedented 320 gladiators. And he had them in silver-plated armour 
because, why not? And he knew how to put on a show 
and impress the masses. And apparently he was the first person to have teams of 
gladiators fighting each other, not just duels all the time. But then again he had 
320 gladiators to make use of. ... Oh, and this was a problem of course, 
because 320 gladiators. You personally in Rome, in actual Rome, 
you've got 320 highly trained, really loyal, armed guys. Now you've got a little private army. 
They actually got a bit scared and said, "Okay, 320, that's now the maximum. 
No more than 320." Mark Antony, a contemporary of Julius Caesar, 
was going around with a bodyguard of gladiators. And I dare say they were a pretty impressive sight, so
"Oh really, you want to mess with me? Do you? Do you really? Perhaps my 
bodyguard will have something to say about that." And you can imagine that some of these 
gladiators might be pretty darn loyal. More loyal than perhaps soldiers or other armed men 
might be. Because technically a gladiator is a slave, and technically you therefore have the 
power of life and death over that person directly. I mean, that person would be your property to kill. 
If you want to kill that slave, you can, that would be legal. But also you could put him into the arena against 
someone he stood almost no chance against. You could indirectly kill him. So when someone's got the power of life and death over 
you like that, you might be really, really attentive to his wishes. Now there were things called sumptuary laws. 
Now a sumptuary law is a law which limits how much extravagant 
expenditure people can go in for. Now sometimes in certain places and periods 
these sumptuary laws were very, very specific. In medieval England (this was in the 14th century), 
there were very specific sumptuary laws about who could wear what type of fur, and how much. 
So these people couldn't wear these furs at all, but maybe they could wear that type of fur, but only as a 
trimming on the collar, and not the whole coat or whatever. And ... it was all very, very set down, very prescribed. And so you could tell someone's rank 
very accurately by the fur on their coat. And there were sumptuary laws 
brought in in Roman times to limit the spiralling costs of these gladiatorial displays. 
But it seems they didn't really work. Sometimes they worked a bit, but they got ignored 
again, and again, and again. Including by Emperors. So for instance, Trajan in 108 or 109 AD, 
he decided to put on 123 days of games involving 10,000 gladiators and 11,000 beasts. Yeah. So you imagine that he was probably not really paying 
all that much attention to the sumptuary laws. ... Certainly, 10,000 is an awful lot more than 320. But, if you ... divide that number 
of people by those number of days, you're still only getting about 40 fights a day, 
... and that's assuming they are all duels. So as soon as you start doing the maths you realise, 
okay, it's not perhaps as amazingly spectacular. But still 123 days of games, 
and these were largely all-day events in a circus. And ... with thousands of people watching, 
so an awful lot of people are not doing work. They're not baking bread or 
whatever else they would be doing. That was an awful lot of man-hours of Rome 
put into putting on spectacles of gore for them. And Commodus, you might know Commodus 
as this guy, he's the baddie in the film "Gladiator". ... Okay, he was a very ... evil baddie in the film "Gladiator", 
but the actual Commodus was possibly worse. But anyway, in the film he appears 
in the gladiatorial ring, and he did. Although he used to use a wooden sword, and 
he made sure that he pretty much invariably won. And he absolutely ignored all the sumptuary laws, 
he put on stupendously expensive, extravagant events. And of course at their height, the 'editors' ... An editor, that's actually a Latin word, the editor is like the 
impresario putting on the show of a gladiatorial contest. So he would be the guy who decided 
what event is on first, who's on which event, (nearly said who's on second), 
the order of events. He's the guy, the impresario. 
He's putting on the show, he's hiring the people, saying what sets will be built and so forth, 
and deciding ... yeah, all that. He's the guy who 
puts the programme together. So the ... editors were flooding 
some arenas and putting on sea battles. And of course they wouldn't be duels, they would have 
involved very large numbers of men all fighting at once. Though I suspect probably not using sharp weapons. Anyway, and Commodus, he went to wild excesses, 
and a lot of it was for self-aggrandisement. Now one thing that they did as 
part of the games was hunting. A gladiator was different from a 'venator'. 
The venatores were hunters and they did acts with animals. Some of them a bit like circus tricks, 
like they got elephants to walk the tightrope, or putting an arm in a lion's mouth 
and not getting it bitten off, that sort of thing. But they would also hunt animals 
for the entertainment of the masses. And Commodus is known to 
have killed 100 lions in a day. And you might think at first that's 
really impressive, but horrible. I mean today we wouldn't want 
to watch someone killing lions. But I think actually even with a 
Roman mindset it was still not great. It's thought that he had a 
tall platform built in the arena, and he stood at the top of it with a bow and an 
awful lot of arrows, and shot lions one after the other. Now, if you were in the audience for that, 
at first you might think, "Wow! A hundred lions." And they open the (I don't actually know if they 
all came in at once or it was one at a time, I don't know, but let's imagine for 
the sake of argument it was all at once) they open the gates and 100 lions come in, 
"Wow! A hundred lions, look at them." Maybe you've never seen a lion before. 
"They're incredible, fabulous beasts. They're just like the statue, 
only they're moving, and they're huge, and wow look at the teeth and the claws on them. 
Ah, some of them are fighting already. Oh look, some of them have run over there." And you're just looking at them, 
the spectacle of 100 lions would be amazing. And then Commodus, the Emperor, 
he comes up and gets out a bow, and "Oh, is he, is he going to shoot some? 
Oh wow, he could shoot into the audience from there. But okay, he's shooting down into the arena 
and ... ooh, he nearly got one. Ah, look at them, you've got them all running around. Ah, look at that one. And did you see the one that 
jumped, did you see it? Wow, what a jump on it. And wow, the noises they're making, 
and the smell. Wow!" And then he shoots one. "Ah, look, it's wounded. 
Ah, look at how the others are reacting." And this will be an amazing spectacle, 
then he shoots it again, and maybe it falls down and it starts dying. 
And then he shoots another one. And then he shoots another one. And another one. And after a while he's shot 30 lions, and you're thinking, "Is he going to shoot them all? Is that it? 
He's going to shoot them all, I mean we could have had, we could have had a hundred 
contests between a bestiarius", (someone who's trained 
specifically to fight beasts like this), "and we could have seen some of our favourite guys 
put their lives in danger down in the ring fighting these magnificent beasts. And you're just for 
your own self-aggrandisement just shooting them all." And then you've shot 70 of them, and now there are 
30 lions cowering in a corner who don't know what to do. And now you're going to shoot those as well. It's not actually a great way 
to make yourself popular. Even with a Roman mindset that was just horrible. And there were various stunts like fighting a whale, one 
of the Emperors did, that won them few friends actually. Now, if you wanted to put on a gladiatorial show, 
you needed to go to see the 'lanista'. Now the lanista was ... not a respectable man. These were not guys who rubbed shoulders with 
the highest in society, they were considered like pimps. The lanista was the guy who ran a school, 
and if you wanted to hire some of his gladiators from the gladiator school you'd have to 
speak to him. And he'd fix you the price. And I imagine that sometimes 
negotiating with a lanista was quite tricky. And now if you were the owner 
of a gladiator school, that's different, that's fine. You could be very respectable. A lot of the highest 
and most rich and respected people in Rome owned gladiator schools. Owned loads of gladiators. But the lanista, yeah, he was the pimp. 
You could imagine it, in the 1930s he'd have been wearing a very sharp suit, 
a very sharp pinstripe suit. You know, that sort. "Yeah, yeah, of course it'll cost you. I could do that." So you would go to him and you would say, 
"Right, I want so many of this kind of act, I want so many of that kind ... I want so many secutors, 
so many myrmidons, I want so many retiarii", and so forth, all the various types of gladiator, 
and ... you would strike a deal with him. ... At the height of the gladiatorial period ... 
there were four gladiator schools just in Rome. These are separate from the schools for the bestiarii, 
the bestiarii are the men who fight animals. And that includes the venatores, the hunters. 
So they are separate, I'm just talking about gladiators. And the biggest of them had about 2,000 gladiators in it. Oh, yeah, so back in the day remember how people 
were shocked that Julius Caesar had 320 gladiators. Well, here was one school in Rome with 2,000 in it. 
So, yes, the scale went up and up, things got pretty grand. Now, you might now be asking yourself, "Yeah, but who were 
these guys? Who on earth would want to become a Gladiator? Oh well of course, they were all condemned men weren't they? 
... You were sent to the games as a punishment." Yes, well actually there were three sources 
of recruiting gladiators. Some of them were, particularly in the earlier days, 
prisoners of war. So you fought a war somewhere, 
take a load of prisoners, and of course a lot of them will be fit 
healthy men of fighting age, and perhaps pretty well trained in martial skills, 
and so they would make good gladiators. And so maybe you could persuade 
a gladiator school to buy a load of them. So that's one way that a gladiator school might 
acquire [men], you might buy a load of prisoners of war. But you wouldn't want just anyone, not all prisoners 
of war would be dumped on gladiator schools. You'd only want the guys 
who'd make very good gladiators. Others might be sold for a better price 
because of some other skill they've got. Maybe they're very good weavers 
or potters or something. So that was one source. And of course 
that meant that, particularly in those early days, you'd get a lot of people from Gaul, 
from Thrace, and from amongst the Samnites. And ... this explains why early types of gladiator 
tended to be a national stereotype, and they would be costumed in some rough parody 
of that nation's supposed national costume, and given weapons that were a little bit 
similar to what those people fought with in war. And then you've also got condemned slaves. Yup, so if you are some slave who has committed 
some crime, then you could be sent to the 'ludi', sent to the games as a gladiator, 
that could be a punishment. So that was another group that went there. But the third one, the third group, 
is possibly to some of you more surprising, and that is volunteers, 
people who chose to be gladiators. ... "But surely you were sent to the games 
as a punishment, and that was it, it was a death sentence wasn't it 
for almost everyone?" No, no, not really. An awful lot of people 
chose to become gladiators. Now I'd like to be able to tell you with authority and 
assuredness just what proportion of them were volunteers. I have seen a documentary on television, 
which said that it was most of them, and up to about three-quarters 
of them were volunteers. But I'm not really convinced that the evidence of that is 
very good. So I'm going to play it safe, and say about half. ... But it could have been ... most, 
but what does most mean? Most could be 51%. But it was an awful lot. Regardless of whether 
it's half or considerably more, it was an awful lot of gladiators were actually people who 
had chosen voluntarily to be gladiators. But who the hell would do that? Well, poor people, very poor people, for instance might 
choose to be gladiators because, well, it's a way to get loads of good food, or at least nutritious food, 
free accommodation, free training, free healthcare, rub downs 
from a masseur quite frequently, security, a little community that takes you in. And the chance of fame and fortune. And we know that people will do 
all sorts of things for fame and fortune, don't we? I mean today, for instance, most of the people 
who become professional boxers are from a fairly poor background. 
Well, it's a way out of the ghetto, isn't it? It's a way to make fame and fortune. 
Only a very, very few people make it, but it's still enough to tempt 
a load of people to become boxers. Who on earth would step into a ring with 
a big hefty guy who's very good at punching, and then be punched in the head repeatedly 
for round after round, and with everybody watching? Who would do that? 
Who would step into the ring with Mike Tyson? Well, it turns out quite a few people. If you 
entice them with fame and glory and that sort of thing, then, yeah, actually there are quite a few people 
who ... are prepared to become a boxer. So there are poor people, that's one lot of people. But there are also glory seekers, 
and there are people who are after the money. Because ... in theory the gladiators 
kept the prize money. I suspect that their trainers and schools and various 
others would perhaps take a cut a lot of the time. But there's the money that's prize money. But also if you fight well in front the crowd 
and become popular, they throw money at you, and you get money from the crowd. So you ... can get a 
load of money. So there you go, that's a good reason. And it can get you out of debt. A lot of people 
were debtors, and you can go to a lanista and negotiate. And you could say, "Well, 
how about I agree to go into the ring so many times if you pay off my debt over so 
many months in return for ..." You could negotiate with a lanista, good luck. And so that's another thing, 
so bankrupts and debtors, that's another sort of person who 
would volunteer to become a gladiator. You could also try to win your freedom 
if you're a slave, if you fought really well. You could also seek redemption. 
Because of this noble, ritual, side of it you could step into the ring in order to 
prove something: that you weren't a coward, or to atone for some sin or whatever. 
So that was something else that you could do it for. But another one, which I haven't come across in 
any of the books, but surely it's women, isn't it? I mean if you want to impress women, 
getting into the arena and apparently risking your life, really, really sharp sword, against some other guy 
who's actually quite good with a sword. That's going to impress the ladies, and you're going to 
be doing it in front of thousands of ladies all at once. One of them will like you, one of them will think 
you are sweet and cute, or brave, or something. And we know that this was 
actually a scandalous problem, that the women of Rome did actually find these lowborn, 
awful gladiators that you weren't supposed to respect in that way, they did find them actually really sexy. And there are a 
number of scandals of sometimes quite highborn ladies running off with horrible, ugly, scarred and 
"Goodness, what the hell does she see in him", gladiators. But, ah, they were gladiators, and 
the heaving bosom, right? You know, if you want to inspire women to like you 
then that's one way, if you haven't had success in other ways. And, you know, and men will do 
anything for the attention of women. So that's another reason that I put forward to you 
that is why someone might become a gladiator. Now if you were sentenced to 
go to the games, to the 'ludi', I talked earlier about munus, 
meaning the duty, the obligation. Munus gave way over the years to ludi. 
'Ludi' just means games. As in the game Ludo, I play. Or the word ludicrous, ... it's just a game, right? It's just something like in a stage play 
or whatever. This is ludicrous. So the games, the plays, the shows, 
they took over from the duty, the obligation, the memorial games, 
the funeral rites of yesteryear. So after a while people stopped calling them 
the munus, and referred to them all as the ludi. But anyway, it's the same sort of thing. If you were sentenced as a punishment to the ludi, typically 
you'd be given a minimum number of years, 5 was common. So you would have to spend 5 years 
fighting in the gladiatorial ring. "I thought you are almost certain to die, aren't you? 
Who could survive 5 years?" Well, actually, look at it another way. Typically gladiators were fighting two or three bouts per year, 
which is about the same as a modern professional boxer. The overlap between modern professional boxing 
and gladitorial combat, ... there's a lot of overlap. So they're fighting about the same number of bouts, 
they have same amount of time to prepare, and be alive, not being in danger. And then they would step into the arena, 
fight their fight, and assuming they didn't die it would be quite some while before their next fight. 
And they could train up, and they didn't ... How would you compare this with one of the 
main alternatives, which was going into the army? Now in the army at the height of the Empire (it used to be 10 years 
you served in the army back in the earlier days of the Republic), but by this stage serving in the army is 25 years. 
25 years in the army. And in the army you fight battles against large armies of opponents 
who are all trying really hard, their level best, to kill you. Whereas 5 years being a gladiator 
fighting just one opponent at a time, who's just trying to defeat you rather than kill you. 
But granted you're putting your life on the line. You might step into the boxing ring 
over a five year period two or three times a year, does that sound better or worse than serving in the 
Roman army for 25 years and having to fight battles? When you compare it with joining the army, particularly 
because you become much more famous as a gladiator, because who knows the 8th soldier 
from the left in a formation or whatever? But as a gladiator you're going into the arena as an 
individual in front of everyone, you become famous and known. And there's a potential for greatness which 
far outstrips anything you'd get in the army. And you have to serve for ages in the army, by the 
time you get out of the army you'll be an old man. Yeah, and the enemy, 
they are all really trying to kill you. So actually, in comparison to joining the army 
it's starting to sound quite good, even a cushy option. There was actually quite a lot of overlap 
between the army and gladiator schools. A lot of gladiator schools were immediately 
next to some army barracks. And there was a lot of overlap 
in the organisation of the two. And some army units sort of owned-ish, 
or owned/ran the gladiator school. It's a fairly obvious association for there to be. Now, being a gladiator was, if you look 
at the whole of Roman society, was low status. Oh, they've joined the ... like the boxers, we don't ... The most successful boxers 
are high status in modern society, but your average slugger in the gym, 
they are not high status guys. And nor are the guys who run boxing gyms. They are 
not rubbing shoulders with the highest of society all the time. But, you were, if you like, buying into a different society. 
There was a camaraderie in it. If you perhaps were quite lowborn, and 
you didn't have great family support and so forth, but you joined a gladiator school. Then you're 
joining this world that has its own support groups. They had their own 'collegia', as they were known, 
... it's almost like a gladiator's union if you like. These little unions where your fellow gladiators 
would chip in to see you through hard times. Would chip in for your funeral, would make sure that 
your family was all right if you died, that sort of thing. And gladiators they had their own cemeteries, 
they weren't buried with the other people. But maybe that wasn't so much ostracism 
from mainstream society in a lot of their minds, maybe it was they've joined this society now. "Okay, yeah, I got thrown out from that society 
but actually I'm happy being in this group now. Yeah, I'm being buried amongst my fellows, I'm living 
amongst my fellows, I've joined this little society. Maybe other people don't think that 
much of it, but actually we're fine." So that's something that some people might have quite 
happily bought into, and they might have felt comfortable in it. Just like there are some people 
who spend their lives today in the army, and they become sort of institutionalised in the army. 
The army becomes their family. Well the same sort of thing can happen with a 
gladiatorial school. So it offered that to some people. Now the difference in fate between 
these people could be enormous. Some of the top, top, top, most famous gladiators 
were given state funerals with all the trimmings. But if you behaved badly in the ring, if you disgraced yourself, 
if you showed cowardice, if you broke some rule or whatever, you could end up having your body 
unceremoniously dumped in the countryside. And according to Roman religion at the time, this would mean that your soul would then 
be set roaming this world ever forlorn, because it was never given a proper burial, 
it never got rest. So that's a pretty nasty fate. So behave well 
in the arena and you ... should avoid that. Now, in order to join ... as a volunteer that is, you needed 
a permit. (This is after the state has got involved.) You need a permit from a magistrate, and I would 
imagine that money would change hands for that. And then you would need a medical examination, 
and I imagine that probably cost money as well. You have to pass that medical examination. 
... Because they're only interested in putting on displays of good fighting, martial prowess, 
in front of the crowds. They don't want weedy guys 
who are going to let them down. So they want to make sure that they've 
got people who are sound in mind and body. So you'd have to pass those two first tests, 
and then you'd have to get someone to take you on, and join up at one of the schools as a gladiator. And if you were a condemned prisoner however, (sorry, I've realise I've just gone off 
at a bit of a tangent, but I just remembered) if you were a condemned prisoner then it is thought that 
you would be branded or tattooed somewhere visible. Maybe on your face, but don't forget 
that with Roman men that if you were tattooed or marked in the lower arm 
or lower leg that would normally be naked. So that would be ... a public, 
visible place to be branded or tattooed. And so that would show you for the rest of your life 
even if you got out of that mess, and actually for the rest of your life, 
as being a gladiator. And so it was not a decision to take lightly. Although, of course if you did commit 
the crime and get sent there against your will, well, you shouldn't have done the crime. Anyway, and you would then live in cells, 
quite often, in the gladiatorial school. And you would be fed on what some 
people describe as a vegetarian diet. It was certainly vegetable heavy, but I'm not sure that it 
was actually vegetarian, which would mean no meat at all. But ... you would be fed a largely vegetarian diet. And one thing that you ate 
in a lot of quantity was barley. Now the Romans did believe that barley was particularly good 
at building people up, and make them big and strong and so forth. But it's noticeable that in the army 
you were normally given wheat, but if an army unit misbehaved, as a 
punishment it could be given barley instead. So in Roman times barley was not seen as being 
great food, as an enjoyable food, or high status food. But these gladiators would be given loads of it, 
and they would grow up big and strong. And they, as I say, they would have 
doctors and masseurs looking after them. ... Galen, the famous Greek doctor 
(physician I suppose I should call him), who was later became a personal 
physician to a number of Roman Emperors, he actually served part of his apprenticeship 
as a medic in a gladiator school. Although, admittedly, he was a little bit critical of the medical 
attention that people were being given there, but never mind. Anyway. Oh, actually an interesting 
detail is that if a slave were sent to the ludi as a punishment, 
one of the things I came across was that there was a law brought in that said that they 
had to appear actually in the arena within one year of that. And that just got me thinking, 
well, why would you need to pass that law? I mean, if you've got this guy, you can only make 
money out of him ... by sticking him in the ring. Just training him up as a gladiator 
all the time doesn't make you money. It's when he goes into the ring 
that he starts earning you money. But then I thought, well maybe if a slave with particular 
skills commits a crime, and then gets sent to the games, he might say, "Well, do you know what, I'm a really, 
really good potter, scribe, glass blower, whatever it is, and you could make a fortune just hiring me out doing 
that as a skill, instead of all this training with the ... yeah." So presumably that was what 
was happening, that people say, "Oh, I've got this resource now. 
Someone has given me a skilled slave. Well, I can train him up as a gladiator and he'll probably 
die first fight because, frankly, he's a bit rubbish. Or I can just hire him out, subcontract, 
and get paid for him glass blowing or potting or doing something else that 
doesn't immediately kill him." And they brought in this law, which said 
you had to actually get these guys into the ring, and they had to then not disgrace themselves. 
Which meant that you then had to train them up. So I suppose that's why the law was brought in. Anyway. One of the reasons that you put on 
gladiatorial games is to celebrate a victory, or to redeem the nation for a defeat. Scipio Africanus, who beat Hannibal at the Battle of Zama, he lost his father and his uncle fighting in Spain. They were killed by forces of King Masensen of Numidia, 
and he in memory of them put on some games. And this was a morale boosting exercise, 
it's one of the reasons that they put it on, so he could redeem Rome for the defeats of 
Cannae and so forth, and celebrate victories, (or forthcoming victories at least), against Hannibal. I don't 
think he'd actually fought the Battle of Zama at this point. So he asked for volunteers, 
and he got loads of his mates, he got a load of very high-ranking people volunteering. And they weren't even paid to appear in his show. Now, how did that happen? 
High-ranking people weren't supposed to do this. Because if you are a slave, 
which you have to be to put yourself ... You see if you own a slave, by Roman law 
the owner has power of life and death over you. ... You are his property, and if he wants 
to kill you he can legally, you belong to him. So if you technically are a slave 
by becoming a gladiator, ... you are giving someone else the 
power of life and death over you. Your trainer, the editor of the show, 
could actually decide to have you executed. Presumably there were all sorts of safeguards against 
this happening, and people get around these rules a bit, but it's kind of a big step to take isn't it, to say, "Oh, yeah, I'm going to put myself in the 
hands of the [people] running this show. And I will take an oath as a gladiator to abide 
by the decisions of the officials put over me." Eeek. And yet he got high-status people 
appearing in his show. Well, normally, the people who get to play 
top-flight Premier League football are the only people who get to play in the big stadia. But sometimes, you know, you get a load 
of comedians and politicians who will appear for just one match as a sort of charity 
fundraising do, or whatever, a memorial. And it seems that in that spirit 
he got a load of his mates to take part in the gladiatorial games, 
presumably not expecting to die. And it was their chance to have a go in the limelight, 
to be seen in front of the big roaring crowds, and to show off their skills that they have got. 
Yeah, they took part as gladiators, and as volunteers. Now, ... if you are a slave, you can't buy property, you can't vote, 
you can't make a will, you're actually a slave. Even someone of senatorial rank 
would have to take that oath. And this was becoming a bit of a problem, and Augustus 
did actually try to ban 'equites' signing on as gladiators. But later he repealed his ban because it 
wasn't working. Loads of these equites (that's the knight rank, the cavalry rank 
sectors of society, fairly well-off guys), they were having a go anyway. And he 
repealed it because it was making him look bad. If you've got a law that bans people doing a thing, 
and loads of people are doing the thing anyway, you just look weak. So just, "Okay, I'll repeal the law, yes, yes." 
Make it look like a magnanimous gesture. But actually probably a bit frustrated 
that no one obeyed the flipping law. Anyway, so gladiators were sort of low status, 
but also sort of venerated at the same time, it's strange, the Romans were fascinated by them. ... Again, professional boxers, you know, 
what do people think of the top, top, top boxers? Do they think that they're erudite 
and educated and so forth? No. But there's glamour there, isn't there? 
The top boxers, they get on the chat shows and the like, they get invited to the VIP events. Now Cicero, he didn't think all that much of gladiators. The word "gladiator" was an insult, and some words like 
"Samnite" for instance, they were particularly harsh insults. And so he saw them as quite lowly, 
but he was also fascinated by them. And even highborn people had 
images of gladiators in their homes. So they had an interest in it, 
... perhaps the ritual side of it was part of it. And he ended up, Cicero, dying like a gladiator. ... You might have seen the scene in ... the television 
series "Rome", when people came to kill him he took it like a gladiator. He exposed 
his neck and they dispatched him. And that was the honourable way to go as a gladiator, 
and you could redeem yourself by dying well as a gladiator. And that's the way Cicero went. Now, the 'damnatii'. The damnatii, as the name suggests, 
were the people who had been damned. They had been sent specifically to die in the arena. And not all of them did, some, some survived. 
But not very many I imagine. They were sent there to be executed, but, you know, 
you may as well make an entertainment out of it. So whilst they were killing the damnatii, ... they would 
perhaps dress them up in mythological costumes representing characters who suffered 
horrendous fates in mythology. "Oh, let's re-enact the death of, 
I don't know, Icarus or someone." "Yeah, he fell off that tower and, 
oh, now he's been eaten by ... etc." Swallowed by, burnt, whatever. 
Lots of entertaining ways to kill people. Those were the damnatii. But even they sometimes 
would somehow find a way to survive, get away, win the approval of the crowd and be spared. And wouldn't 
that be a wonderful moment that everyone could share in. ... And so forth, it's drama. Scipio, when he captured Roman deserters after the 
Battle of Zama, at the end of the Second Punic War, the Roman deserters, he just crucified them all. Yup, he was pretty thorough there. 
He was a pretty harsh guy, Scipio. But the foreign deserters, 
the foreign traitors, the non-Roman allies, they were supposed to be allied to Rome, but 
they'd gone over to Hannibal. People like the Samnites. Yeah, he sent them to the games. 
Why waste them? Now as I was saying, the earliest gladiators were 
called Gauls and Thracians and Samnites and so forth, aping these national groupings. But after a while ... a lot of these areas 
came into the Roman Empire. The Samnites after a while were part of the Roman Empire. 
Gaul, of course, became part of the Roman Empire. So I can imagine at some point 
a conversation like this happened. - "Ah, ah, I can't believe you just said that." 
- "Well, I just said that that Samnite over there ..." - "Oh, again, you just said it twice. You dinosaur, 
you absolute dinosaur. (I mean I say dinosaur even though being Roman, 
of course, I don't really know what dinosaur means, because the science of palaeontology, 
... well, it has hardly got going at all.) But nonetheless, you dinosaur. 
Nobody says 'Samnite' anymore. Don't you realise ... that there's 
a history behind that word? That word has been used with 
lots of very negative connotations in the past. It's really quite insulting and very offensive. 
And frankly, I'm amazed to hear you say it." - "Well, I was just referring to that gladiator 
over there, like, I can see he is a Samnite." - "No, he's not. I don't actually ... know where he's from, 
but that's not the point. You don't use the word because of course 
we live now in a multicultural society, and there are a lot of Samnites who 
are now respectable Roman citizens, and, you know, it's incredibly insulting to 
these brave gladiators to use terms like that." - "Right, so you're okay that we force them to fight each 
other to the death in the arena for our entertainment." - "Well, yes, obviously. I mean I'm politically correct, 
but I'm not political correctness gone mad. Yes, I'm fine with our forcing these people to 
fight each other to the death for our entertainment. But there's no point in heaping an insult like that 
on them as well, because that could be very upsetting." - "I feel that your values are not the same as mine." Now, I'm not saying that that conversation in its 
exactitude ever happened, but others like it apparently did. So the Samnites became renamed 'secutores', 
and the Gauls they became 'murmillos', and so forth. So as these nations ... it became a bit embarrassing that 
we were celebrating ... making these guys fight it's ... Well, you can see the reason, 
you can see the reason. So that was one change that happened. And later on, they were adding in more fantasy types, 
and perhaps the chief among these was the 'retiarius'. He's the guy a bit like one of these, 
he's got the trident and the net. And noteworthy is that he didn't have a helmet. And it's thought that these were lower status 
in some way than other gladiators. Although I don't know why someone would end up 
being one type of gladiator rather than another. It seems that if you were a retiarius you very often 
stay a retiarius, that would be your thing. So if it's lower status, why would you choose that one, 
or be given that particular role? I don't know. But anyway, so the retiarius, nobody actually fights in war 
with a net and trident. The trident is a silly weapon. ... But the retiarius was quite a formidable opponent. 
Because not only has he got the net to catch you in, and the trident, but he's also got, 
very significantly, a knife. Big difference, because if he 
just had the trident and the net, you could rush at him, knock his trident aside with 
your shield, and get right up to him and stab, stab, stab. Even if he brings the net up, you can stab him 
through the net, and stab, stab, stab. But yeah, if you get really close to him, 
he's got a knife. And knives are really ... fast, perhaps faster than your sword actually. 
And he might stab you to death. So maybe you don't want to close with a retiarius. But if you hang back, of course then his trident and net 
start becoming rather effective. ... Later designs of secutor helmet ... looked like this, 
very sort of smooth and apparently designed to avoid being caught in the net of the retiarius. Anyway, ... whereas in the early days 
they would have very symmetrical pairings. Then when you bring in the retiarius, he's 
generally not pitted against another retiarius. So you now have asymmetrical 
pairings of gladiators coming in, and then group fights, and then later they brought in 
'equites' - they brought in cavalrymen, and then chariots, and then with the wild excesses ... at the peak of 
the period even naval warfare and all the rest. So there were more novelty acts. Now, I know that I'm going to be asked about 
the 'gladiatrix'. Did these exist? Well, the word 'gladiatrix' is modern, 
that wasn't used back in the day. But it describes something that did actually exist. 
We do know that there were women gladiators. But nobody can tell you how rare they were. We know they were rare, but were they exceedingly rare 
or just quite rare? We just don't know. There is literary evidence to show 
that they were quite definitely novelty acts. And it does seem that a lot of people were fairly 
unimpressed by them, even a little scandalised by them. They were never mainstream. So yes, they did exist, 
but they were rare to very rare. And that's about all I can say really about the gladiatrix. Anyway, so how did it all happen? Well, the night before you'd be due to go on, 
you would be given your last meal. This is similar perhaps to the last meal of the 
condemned man on death row, or wherever. And it seems that sometimes this was public, 
it was just another way to make money. Perhaps you could sell tickets to people, 
because people love to come and gawp, don't they? And watching a man eating his last meal was 
apparently something that some people wanted to see. And I imagine that some people, some people, 
eating the last meal might want to be seen as well. It's their time to say their bit, perhaps, say farewell to some people who knew that person 
who'd come along to say farewell. And so there was that little ritual of 
the last meal the day before. And then on the day, there'd be the entry possession. And in would march the 'lictors'. 
The lictors were hefty guys with 'fasces'. They were bundles of sticks representing the 
unity of Rome through the strength of many. You see you can't break a bundle of sticks, 
whereas you could break one stick okay. And they also had axes in them, and these 
would represent the power of life and death. And so they would come at the front. And then 
you would have pa-patap-patah, yes, trumpeters. And you would have guys with palm fronds 
which would be awarded to the victors. You'd be given a palm frond to show, "Yep, yep, you won." 
A bit like a medal around the neck or whatever. There would be scribes who would parade, 
they'd be there to record all the results. And there would also be ... gods! Not actual gods, but effigies of gods would be brought in, 
so they would be overlooking the proceedings. And I suppose therefore tacitly 
showing their approval of what was to come. "Yes. Yes. I am ... Jupiter, I am Jupiter. 
And I approve of these games." And then you'd also have the editor, 
the guy running the show, the impresario. And he would then show off all the kit. Now I imagine that what you would 
probably do with a lot of this kit is show what you will see if you 
come back tomorrow, or the day after. So if you'd have several days of games, as they often did, 
perhaps you'd put out all the kit and say, "And you'll see this tomorrow." ... "Hang on, but you'll see this stuff today. Oh come on, 
it's good stuff, this is what you'll see today." So use it as ... an advertisement for what is to come. And of course, presumably the 
gladiators as well would parade. And I'm guessing, purely a guess here, that they would parade helmets off, so that people 
could see their faces. Perhaps carrying their helmets. Showing their faces to the crowd so they could be recognised. 
And that would be, you know, their moment. Then the games would start, and they'd usually start 
with the beasts, so you'd have fights with animals. And then after that you would have the executions. And they would be done, as I said, 
in all sorts of interesting different ways. And then the highlight of the day, obviously 
you keep people waiting for the highlight don't you, would be the gladiatorial contests. 
... They were the most popular acts. And so people would then watch the skill, 
this prowess, of gladiators pitched man against man. And, it is thought that because 
there were live musicians there (and we know this, there are pictures 
for instance, there are mosaics, of gladiators fighting whilst the musicians, 
who are there watching them, are playing). Because there are live musicians 
watching them happen, it might be that you actually would have trumpet blasts and cymbal 
clashes and so forth, in time with what's happening. So if the trumpeter sees someone go whack, like that 
with his sword, he might go "woop" on his trumpet. And if someone is whacked on the shield or helmet or something, 
someone might go "psssh" with some cymbals. We don't know this for certain, it's conjecture. But it seems that they made use of the fact that there 
were live musicians there watching things happen to increase the excitement. 
Add incidental music if you like. And there would be also, part of the show, 
extras added in ... unexpected stuff. And if you're writing stories about gladiators 
here's a dramatic opportunity for you, because the editor could throw in another fighter. 
So maybe these two gladiators fight, and this one kills that one. 
"Hooray, I've won, I've won, terrific." And then the editor says, "Ah, that was very good, now I'm putting this guy against you as well. 
You're going to fight a second fight." - "But I'm really tired after that first time." 
- "Ooh, yeah. Well, that's going to be really interesting, but we know you're pretty good because you just won 
the last fight. This'll be interesting, won't it everyone? Ha ha ha." And of course that way you could
get two fights with just three gladiators, whereas if you had two duels that were fair, that 
would be four gladiators, it would be more expensive. So that's another reason that 
the editor might pull a trick like that. So there will be unexpected stuff. And one of the things that'll be unexpected perhaps 
is the expression of free speech. Because in say the ... Flavian Amphitheatre, 
50,000 people, if someone shouts something out loads of people will hear it. But how many 
people will know who shouted that? And what if the crowd in general starts 
murmuring something, or roaring something even, approval or disapproval of a 
particular person's entry or last act. It's an opportunity for crowds to express 
approval or disapproval on a large scale. And people could petition the editor, they could say, 
"Oh, oh, do this act", or "Have someone say this" or whatever. It was a very, very public event. 
And freedom of speech can be a dangerous thing. So that was one use, risk if you like ... for 
the person in authority [at] the gladiatorial games. They were a ... large gathering of people in an 
amphitheatre which might be acoustically quite efficient, so people can hear what's going on reasonably well. And so you may find that some people are saying things that 
you might not approve of, and how are you going to stop them? And some Emperors got embarrassed 
in front of their own people that way. Now, I suppose really I've been 
rabbiting along all this time, I should say something about my sponsor 
who has very kindly sponsored me, that's ExpressVPN. What's ExpressVPN? Well express means fast, right? 
And VPN is Virtual Private Network. And it's a company that offers the 
services of virtual private networks, which are pretty handy things to 
... have if you're surfing the internet. And this particular company has over 2,000 servers 
worldwide (and adding to them every week), spread out over 94 different countries 
around the world. Which is pretty handy. So if you want to, for instance, watch a video 
which is blocked in your country for some reason, or read some political news that 
you can't get access to because someone somewhere has decided that you 
shouldn't see it being from where you are, well, you can just pretend, 
using this sort of method here, you see, you just pretend to be from somewhere else. And your internet messages get 
re-routed through that other country, and the internet site to which you are applying 
thinks you're from there, instead of where you're really from. And so, "Ah, it's perfectly fine to show 
this information to that person." And so you can get round 
that inconvenience of the internet. The internet's meant to be interconnected isn't it? 
You know, ... the interweb, ... internet, works best if ... everything 
connects to everything else. And so VPNs actually make the internet 
work more like it's supposed to. Another thing you can do is 
make yourself a lot more secure. In my case this is I think my principle appeal of using these 
services. If I'm in an airport, or a railway station or something, and I do not trust the dodgy, 
possibly insecure, local free Wi-Fi, then I can get out of there and route to some secure 
server somewhere else, and then I'll feel a lot better. There are other good things about ExpressVPN. For instance, 
they have 24 hour, 7 days a week, customer support. And they are very fast. As far as I know, they are the fastest 
of all the VPN services out there. And speed, as you'll know when you're 
surfing the internet, is quite important. And the further your messages have to route around the world, 
of course, then the more potential delay of a slow VPN there is. So you want a good fast VPN, so ExpressVPN 
(there's a clue in the name) might be for you. And if you go to www.ExpressVPN.com/Lindybeige, 
you will find that there's an offer. Yes, you can get the first three months free 
if you sign up for a year. Which works out at less than seven dollars a month, 
so it shouldn't break the bank. Now in America, if you're in the USA, your internet 
service provider, your ISP, can sell on details to advertisers. It's perfectly legal for them to do that. 
Whereas ExpressVPN will not do that. So if you've, I don't know, bought a sofa and 
then for the next six months you're seeing nothing but wall-to-wall adverts for sofas 
on your screen all the flipping time. You're getting quite annoyed, because frankly you've just 
bought a sofa, who in the world is going to buy another sofa? Probably not someone who's just bought a sofa. 
I mean just ... oh, that's so stupid, isn't it? But anyway, if that's annoying you, then you'll see less of 
that sort of stuff if you use the services of ExpressVPN. Now a concerned viewer of mine 
wrote to me saying, "I'm concerned." And I said, "Well, I'm glad that you're concerned, 
glad that people are concerned. ... What you concerned about, concerned viewer?" And he said, "I saw you before advertising ExpressVPN, 
and I'm really wondering if these services are quite everything that you've cracked them up to be. 
I mean you talked, for instance, about peace of mind. What does that really mean? 
Are they actually more secure?" Well, yes, I agree there is a problem there, 
because peace of mind isn't actually a thing that someone can give you. They can't 
... sell you so many units of peace of mind. You can't pick up a bit of peace of mind 
(not if it's spelt p-e-a-c-e that is), and peace of mind might not even be to your advantage. 
Because you might be in tremendous danger! There are assassins closing in on your house right now, 
and if you don't get out of there you're going to die! But you don't know that, 
because you've got peace of mind. But actually in your case having peace of mind 
is probably to your disadvantage. But having peace of mind in general is a good thing, isn't it? 
So you'd like to think that you're more secure with a VPN. And he talked about the problems of, 
for example, encryption. And a VPN can be hacked. Well do you know what? 
Yeah, yeah, a VPN can be hacked. But it's really difficult. So one of the things you've got to ask yourself is, 
"Am I a major government? Am I a multinational bank? Am I someone that it's really worth 
large gangs of expert criminals spending a year cracking my codes 
and breaking my encryption?" It is possible. There is no completely uncrackable code. If you are the head of MI6, then what the hell are you doing watching 
a great long video on YouTube about gladiators? For goodness sake, you're supposed to be keeping 
this country safe from all the villains out there! You should be sending out 
double-O whatever, licenced to thingy, and ... Sorry, that was a bit of an outburst. 
I'm sorry M, if you are watching, which I doubt. ... Yes, I'm sure you're doing an excellent job really. But the point is that I really don't think M 
is relying on the services of a VPN. "Oh, it's all right. We've signed up 
to ExpressVPN, MI6 is safe." And I think that if you're running a major multinational 
bank then, yeah, you'd want to do a bit more than that. But if you are not one of those, then you're 
probably not worth the huge amount of effort that people would have to go through 
to crack the encryption. So perhaps that would give you peace of mind. But there are problems with encryption again, because if you want to send ... say 
you want to comment on this video, so you want to send to YouTube the text 
of your little comment to go under this video. Well, if you send it to YouTube so brilliantly encrypted 
that YouTube looks at it and goes, "No idea what he's trying to say, 
it's ... all in gobbledygook." Well, then you won't actually be able to interact. So at some stage it has to be decrypted 
to then be able to interact with the site. So yes, there are always certain links in the chain. So ... there's no service on earth 
which excuses you from just being sensible. You have to think, "Should I be dealing with this website? 
They've asked me for an awful lot of details of my information and my credit card number, 
my date of birth, my shoe size, should I ..." Sometimes you've just got to look after yourself. So I'm not going to say to you that if you sign up to 
ExpressVPN ... because I don't know, I'm not an expert, I'm just some bloke who talks 
about gladiators on YouTube. But I'm not going to say to you that you will be 100% safe 
if you sign up with a service like ExpressVPN. ... But encryption's better than no encryption, ... and you can 
choose on ExpressVPN which type of encryption you want. And one of them is something called 
open-source encryption, which allows people to, if they find a vulnerability, to patch it. And this ... has been shown to be 
a particularly good form of encryption. So yeah, this is a military-grade encryption. 
How good you want it to be? But the idea that there's a guarantee is a silly thing. And I wouldn't want to try to sell that to anyone. So if you're watching me, some guy 
who knows things about gladiators, and expecting me to be able to assure you that 
you get 100% security from ExpressVPN, well, I'm not going to give that to you. And neither will 
the company, they won't make that stupid claim. Now it could be that ... rather than cracking the code, 
they just ... steal the keys somehow. There are guys in jet-black, skin-tight uniforms who are 
really, really good at abseiling who will steal the keys. Well, ExpressVPN changes its keys every hour. So they'll have to be pretty quick off the mark 
to be able to do a lot in that hour. You are safer by taking precautions 
than [by not] taking ... precautions. So there you go, I realise I've rattled on for a long time. But when someone wrote to me expressing these 
concerns about VPNs I was genuinely concerned. I thought, "Oh god, I hope I'm not selling snake oil here." There are limitations to what a VPN can do for you. But yeah, if you're on dodgy free Wi-Fi somewhere, 
if you are trying to get round a firewall, a national firewall or whatever, 
yeah, they can do that. And they can give you some, I would hope, 
rational, good, and genuinely useful peace of mind. Okay, so there you go, ExpressVPN. 
And I do thank the person who wrote in to me, because it got me to do a lot more research into VPNs. And I hope I've given you a reasonable rundown on that, 
because I don't want to oversell something. I want to be realistic. And I think actually if you 
are ExpressVPN listening to me say this, you should actually be glad 
that I'm being more reasonable about it. Because I think people will be more trusting of 
someone who says that they can't do everything. They won't make you invulnerable. Right. Okay, so that was my slightly over-long 
and tangential sponsorship message. Now, back to gladiators. Now, the whole reason 
I'm talking to you about gladiators is that I had a thought whilst looking through the 
websites of modern armourers who make armour today. And one of the things they make of course are 
very pretty gladiator helmets like this one, and for example this one. And there's something I noticed about them, 
and I thought, "That's odd. And that's just wrong, 
gladiator helmets shouldn't be like that." Can you see what ... I'll get back to that. You see, I think, possibly, 
gladiators were sort of cheating. Now, when is a sport a real sport? Well, one of the reasons that you might think that a 
sport is not a real sport is if bookies don't take bets on it. If you can't gamble on the outcome of a sport, 
it's probably not a real sport. If you want to place bets on whether 
Big Daddy beats Giant Haystacks in Britain, or in America whether The Rock beats 
The Undertaker or whatever, in one of those choreographed wrestling matches, 
then no one will take your money. Because they know that there are people out there who 
know what the result's going to be, because it's scripted. So obviously, unless they're mad, 
they are not going to take bets on it. Okay, but what can you bet on? Horse racing. Okay, definitely people bet on 
horse racing, so that must be a real sport. And yet Dick Francis, a British author, he made 
his ... living writing novel after novel after novel about people cheating in horse racing. Almost every way that someone could possibly 
fix a horse race is in one of Dick Francis's novels. And there have been scandals 
of cheating in all sorts of sports. In football and even, though it pains me as 
someone from England to say, and even cricket. There have been some accusations, 
and with reason, of cheating even in cricket. Now we know, don't we, that boxers famously, 
it's one of the standard plots of film noir, ... like Bruce Willis in "Pulp Fiction", he was paid to take a 
dive in the fifth, or whatever it was, he was paid to cheat. Now boxing matches are different 
from team sports, aren't they? Because if you want to corrupt a boxing match, 
you only have to corrupt one person, the boxer. You pay him, no-one else needs to be in on it, 
you pay him to take a dive in the fifth, and there need be no more conspirators. And if he doesn't take a dive in the fifth, 
you know exactly who's responsible. So that's one of the reasons that boxing might be 
perhaps more corruptible than other sports. Now there are two ways 
that a sportsman can cheat. He can cheat to win, or he can cheat to lose. Now cheating to win we sort of understand. 
This guy is running towards the enemy goal, and this guy thinks, "Oh, no, he might score." 
So rather than tackling properly he just comes in with a cynical scything tackle 
and takes him down. It's a yellow card, free kick. "Oh dear, that was terrible, 
terrible play, you know, there are rules against that." That was really cheating in order to win, 
and yet we sort of understand it. And we sort of at least like and appreciate 
the fact that he really wanted to win, he was trying so hard to win that he cheated. But if someone cheats to lose, we hate that. We hate that, because that makes a mockery of sport, 
"How dare you, I thought I was watching a real sport I thought you were trying your hardest 
and you weren't, it was fake." We hate it when people cheat to lose. Okay, so we don't particularly like it when people cheat 
to win, but at least we understand that a bit better. Now, there ... was a study done on sumo wrestling. I read about this in a fascinating book 
called "Freakonomics". Someone looked at 32,000 
bouts of ... sumo wrestlers in Japan. Now, sumo wrestling is not just a sport, 
it's also a religious rite. It's part the Shinto religion. There are priests involved and so forth. And so it is sacred on a level. And the 
Japanese world was absolutely shocked when it was revealed that there were 
sumo wrestlers who were actually cheating. Now, he looked at these 32,000 bouts, and essentially the way it goes is that every sumo 
wrestler in the league fights every other sumo wrestler, and you either win or lose your match. And ... of the 15 bouts, if you win 8 (so the majority), 
then your ranking goes up. But if you don't, oh dear. So if you have won 7 and lost 7, 
your next bout is absolutely crucial. This will decide whether you will 
go up in the rankings or not. If you have won, say, 8 or 9 bouts but lost 5 or 6, then there's no way you can 
win the overall competition. But you also know that you're going 
to go up in the rankings, you're safe. So, hmm. What if you did a deal with someone who's on 7/7? 
So you agree to lose, it's not going to cost you anything. But boy, is it worth a lot to the guy who's on 7/7, 
7 wins and 7 losses. And so that's he did. ... The records of 
sumo bouts go back a very long way. So he looked at 32,000 bouts 
where you've got someone who's on 7/7 up against someone who had 
nothing to lose by just throwing the match. And how often do you think that 
the guy who's on 7/7 won? Well, statistically they should 
have won 48.7% of the time. But actually it turns out that they 
won 79.6% of the time, way more often. And with that sample size you could be pretty 
flipping certain that something fishy is going on. And he thought, "Okay, well let's go further, let's look at what happens with the 
next bout between those two same guys." And the guy who won last time, only won 40% of the time, 
significantly less than half the time. So it seems that he was saying, "Okay, right, 
I won't fight as hard against you next time because you did me that favour with the really 
crucial match. So I'll make your next match against me not so hard, but I've got to make it look good." 
So 40% of the time, interesting. And then after that it bounces back 
and goes back to 50% of the time. Hmm. Yeah, exactly sort of what you'd expect 
if they were, ahem, cheating. And this, as I say, really shocked the Japanese. 
But the thing is that the stakes were really high. If you're one of the top, top, top 
sumo wrestlers you earn millions. If you are, say, 40th, you're doing pretty well, 
you're earning a decent living. But if you're just the 70th best sumo wrestler in Japan, 
you're on a pittance, you earn about $15,000 a year. Plus you have to do all sorts of demeaning tasks looking 
after the more senior, higher ranking sumo wrestlers. Cleaning up after them. So yeah, so the stakes were really, really high. And so it seems 
that even in the world of sumo wrestling cheating happens. So what about gladiators then? 
Do you think they never cheated at all? How would you cheat? Well, did people gamble on the outcome of 
gladiator matches? Yeah, yeah, they did. There would be billboards announcing [in] general 
what was going to be on in the games to the public. But on the day you could buy a program 
that was really detailed, and showed you exactly the running 
order and the named gladiators. All the information you would need if 
you wanted to place bets on the outcome. And people did, this was a gambling sport. So as soon as you introduced that, 
you introduced a reason for people to cheat. And whereas it's very difficult to fight better 
than you're able to fight, you can fight worse. You can deliberately not harm the other guy. So that's one reason that perhaps they cheated. 
And if sumo wrestlers can cheat, why not gladiators? There would be other things on the billboard as well, we will 
sprinkle perfume over the audience, we'll be giving out food, 10 people randomly drawn coming through the doors 
will be given a door prize. It'll be really great, come and see our show. 
Come and see our show. Now there were fights that were with wooden swords. In fact, there were entire games, we believe, 
that were fought with blunted wooden weapons, safety weapons if you like, 
to minimise the amount of death. So this notion that the general public has 
that gladiators always fought to the death, that it was all about blood and sacrifice and death 
is perhaps not terribly accurate. And ... in fact Suetonius, he mentions of one 
of the big gladiator games in Nero's day, nobody died. Maybe he was remarking that it was unusual. But he 
talked about one of these big games where nobody died. How is that possible if they're all fighting as hard as they can, 
trying as hard as they can to kill each other? Well the pictures of gladiators fighting 
show quite clearly referees. And they are wearing a sort of toga-like garb which 
does not look very practical for fighting in. They don't have armour and they've got a stick, 
that's a referee stick for separating the guys, "Okay, right, back a bit, back a bit. Okay ... and fight." 
Doing that sort of thing. ... I suppose you could defend yourself 
a bit with a stick like that. But if you were in serious danger I don't think 
you'd be wearing this sort of garb. And yet they were able to get away with that. So if these two guys are desperate, and they think, 
"I'm going to die", they might just lash out at anyone around them. It's as though they're not actually that desperate, 
and that they're seeing it as a sport, and they can be perfectly civil 
in the presence of the referee. If these are all condemned men fighting to the death, 
and they know that one of them is definitely going to die, and the other one might 
be hideously wounded, they might try anything. Another thing that would happen was that 
honoured guests before a bout would come down, "And we have the famous do-dah do-dah." 
And on he comes, and he's, "Hello everyone." And he would inspect the swords and say, 
"Oh, yeah, they are very sharp, and ooh, yes. Okay. A beautiful hammock by the way, lovely blooms, love it. Okay, so great to meet you. 
I'm a big fan of your work, big fan of your work. So but ... great luck to the both of you, great fight. 
Okay, so I who am not about to die salute you." That wouldn't happen surely if 
these were two desperados who thought, "We're probably going to die, 
we've got to do anything we can to get out of here. Right, let me out, let me out of here 
or the local dignitary gets it." Might happen, but it seemed it didn't. 
It seemed it was much more of a sporting event. Boxers when they get into a boxing ring they don't 
immediately attack the referee, or the dignitary, or the announcers or anyone. They don't take hostages 
because they're not desperate men. They just see it as a sporting competition 
which they expect to survive. Okay. Here's another thing. You could raise a finger. Now, you've heard the expression, 
"Oh, those three kids were attacking that one there, they were kicking fifteen shades of something or other 
out of him, and nobody lifted a finger to help." To lift a finger was to stop the bout. 
And the referee could lift a finger to stop the bout. But also, we have depictions of gladiators doing this, 
they would raise a finger, and as if to say, "Oh, yeah, right, okay, stop the bout." 
... It's a bit like tapping out, if you like. It could just be for a temporary thing, "Oh, I'm sorry, there's someone in the audience there 
I think needs some help or whatever." But it also could be, 
"Ah, yeah, okay, he got me. Yeah, he's won, I concede." You've taken a wound, you do that. And in these mosaics it tends to be a guy who's got a wound, 
a quite obvious gushing, bleeding wound, who's doing that. Well, why would you do that? Because you expected to live, 
you expected to be given quarter. No one is going to stop the bout if he thinks that, 
"That means I have lost, therefore I'm going to be killed." So, they expected to live. If you tap out in a Mixed Martial Arts match, cage fighting, 
you expect the other guy to then let you go. Okay, you've lost the match, but you expect to live, right? 
No one is going to raise a finger if he expects to die. He's going to carry on fighting desperately 
to the very, very last. So the fact that that convention exists 
suggests that they expected to live. And if you'd ... fought well and taken a wound and shown 
everyone, "Look, look, I really can't carry on, I've got this wound", people thought, "Ah, that's fair enough." And 
the crowd would let you live if you had fought well. It was only if you had displeased the crowd, 
or displeased the editor, that you might be ruled as 
not having done your bit and had disgraced the gladiatorial arena, and therefore 
would have to be put to death. And what's more, they did advertise 
particular fights as being to the death. Why would they do that? Why would you say 
this bout is to the death if they're all to the death? So they presumably weren't all to the death. So in a fight to the death whoever loses will die. But in another fight it is until one guy 
has been established as the winner, and the other guy then doesn't have to be killed. He can, though he may be wounded, 
taken out on a stretcher, given medical attention, a few months time he'll be maybe 
... fit to fight again. So that's another reason why I think that 
actually not that many gladiators died. Also, you had to compensate the gladiator school, the owner 
of the gladiator, if [the] gladiator that you had hired died. And it could cost 50 times as much to compensate 
for a dead gladiator as to hire him in the first place. 50 times as much? 
That doesn't make any sense, does it? But it does mean that the people paying for the show 
have got a very strong vested interest in not many of the performers dying, 
because it could be very expensive for them if they have to pay 50 times more 
than they were hoping to have to pay them. Why is it 50 times? 
Because I mean if these fights are to the death, then when two guys meet one of them will die. So the average fight expectancy 
is one or two fights for a gladiator. Or you could say half a fight, 
being more mathematical about it. So surely it couldn't be worth 50 times, 
he can't be worth 50 times dead. That doesn't make any sense, 
what are you compensating for? Well, maybe you're compensating for future earnings. 
But what earnings could there be? Well, if you expect a gladiator 
to survive many, many fights, then future earnings could be quite substantial. Which would actually explain 
why you have to pay loads more. And if he's at the start of his career 
you can imagine that as he gets more famous, has more victories [under] his belt, 
is more known to the crowd, attracts more people, he's more of a ... 
Yeah, then he'd be worth more. Maybe if you fight 30 fights in your career, 
maybe it's the last 5 where you really earn big money. And at the start of your career, 
then maybe you could hire this guy quite cheaply. But yeah, if he dies, what you're compensating the 
gladiator school for is that future loss of earnings. "We were expecting him to last a long time. 
We had big hopes for him, and we were hoping to clean up in those 
last fights, we don't get any of that money. You owe us big-time." 
50 times you have to pay if he dies. That makes sense. By the way, that's purely my conjecture, 
I haven't read that in any book. But that's just me thinking about 50 times, 
how could you explain that? How could you say that 
that ... could be a reasonable amount to pay? Ah, all right, under those circumstances, maybe. Now, Caligula and Claudius both managed to 
make themselves unpopular with the crowds by condemning to death some 
defeated but popular gladiators. Which again fits with what I'm saying, doesn't it? 
People wanted to see these guys over and over again. They didn't want them wasted by being killed. 
"Yeah, so the guy had been defeated, but he fought well, and we like him, we want to see him again, 
and, ah, you've killed him? Boo." The crowd would boo their own Emperor. Augustus actually tried to ban fights to the death 
completely. I don't think that went terribly well, I think it was about as useful as his ban on the equites. Now, oh, yes, someone's bound to ask 
about turning of the thumb. Sorry, this business. So is that going in for the kill, condemning 
a man to death that way, or that way? The phrase is "turning of the thumb", 
so nobody can tell you with absolute authority. And I can see why that looks dramatic, and I can see 
why some Hollywood movie directors said do that, because down, down, death, the underworld, defeat, 
that general direction looks like bad, doesn't it? So I could see why you might go with that. 
But then people say, "No, actually it was this." If you want my opinion, and here it's 
complete conjecture from me. I don't know this, but I imagine that when 
making the decision the editor, with the two gladiators one either side of him, 
deciding who had won might do that. Because that's a very big high-profile gesture. 
The entire crowd can see it. So he does that, 
and then there'll be a perhaps a big hush, as if, "Aah, the decision is coming." And then he would turn the thumb 
- that way or that way. Meaning, "I reckon he's won", 
or "I reckon he's for the chop", whichever way round. So you then indicate by turning the thumb. So there'd be that, "I'm about to make a decision", wait for dramatic reasons, and then make a decision. So that would be my conjecture. 
But I don't know, I'm just guessing. So these gladiators were fighting about two or three bouts 
per year, which is about the same as a modern boxer fights. So you get match fit, and then you fight just two or three 
bouts a year, so you'd have to pay these guys quite a lot. It's very expensive to hire a boxer. 
And the top boxer is very, very, expensive indeed. So if you go (and I looked this up), if you go to a 
modern boxing match, a big professional fight night today, you will see just two or three boxing matches. So they don't hire very many, which means 
that they have to sort of string it out a bit to make that a full night's entertainment, equivalent 
to going to the theatre or the cinema or whatever. They've really got to string these fights out a lot, 
and I think that's what they do. In fact, I strongly suspect that 
they've worked out from years of experience just how much you can string it out, and 
how much is too much, so you don't go that far. ... So you have all the pre-match build-up, 
all the weigh-ins, all that sort of business. On the night itself you've got all the various 
announcements, and people talking about what's to come. And then you announce the entry 
of the gladiator, of the boxer, who then comes in with his entourage 
and his shiny satin dressing gown on, mock boxing away with fireworks and the music playing, 
and on he comes. There's an introduction. And then he comes into the ring, 
that's a second ... introduction. And then he reveals his fighting body by taking off 
his dressing gown, and that's like a third introduction. And then you go through all this for the other guy. And then you introduce them formally, "In the blue corner, 
fighting from so-and-so, weighing this-that-and-the-other." And you introduced them again, then you bring them 
into the centre and you say, "Okay, I want a fight ..." you're introducing them again. So you've introduced 
... that's about seven introductions. So you're really stringing it out, and then they 
circle each other for a while and then they fight, and then "ding-ding", you have a rest. 
Someone comes round with a card. And people are then talking tactics, 
about what's going to happen next. And this goes on for round after round after round. And physically, I suspect you couldn't probably string out a 
heavyweight professional boxing match much longer either. These guys are super-fit when they get into the ring, 
and yet after 12 rounds or whatever you can see towards the end of the match 
they're exhausted. And the quality of fighting goes down, 
and if they carried on those fights much longer then the risk of injury would go up, and it wouldn't be that impressive a spectacle 
watching two guys drunk with exhaustion feebly trying to hit each other. 
It's not what people have paid money to see. They've paid money to see the best, to see champs. So they have probably worked out 
that's about as long as we can make this match last. Physically because of what the athletes are capable of. 
And also dramatically, because if you spend too long introducing people 
then they really will get impatient. "Oh, come on, will you start the fight now." So it seems that the same thing 
is happening with gladiators. These gladiatorial matches in 
the arena would go on all day. But they didn't have that many fights, and a 
lot of the fights, it seems, lasted 10 to 20 minutes. And they would sometimes have, "Okay, split apart." 
And they would have a break like between rounds. A quick rub-down, tactics, "Are you all right? 
Okay, carry on? Right, round two", "ding-ding". (No, not necessarily "ding-ding", 
but maybe they had trumpets, "pa-pa-paa".) "Round two", and they carry on with the fight. 
So they're really stringing it out. Now, let's look at how they're equipped. 
Most of the standard gladiators, something like this. So you've got a big helmet that 
completely covers your head. You've got a big shield, quite often. 
And you've got one or two greaves covering that [shins]. And quite often you've got armour on your sword arm as well. 
So everything that is showing is pretty well armoured. So if you stand back and hack at the guy, 
you're not going to hurt him. He's a competent guy, he can just 
move his shield around, bom, bom, bom, bom. Even if you get past his shield, clang off the helmet, 
clang off his greave, you're not going to hurt him. If you want to kill him you have to get in there, 
and his torso and thighs, they're largely unarmoured. So you get in there and go 
stab, stab, stabby, stabby, brrp. But of course if you get really close to a guy, 
and you're going stabby, stabby, stab, stab, and it looks like you're trying to kill him, then the 
most rational thing he can do is try to kill you faster. So even if you do kill him, you're probably going to have 
a horrible, possibly even mortal, wound at the same time. Hmm. Thing is though, if I thought you were 
equipped like this and I were equipped similarly, and I thought that you absolutely definitely were 
trying to kill me. And that was your only objective. I would try to kill you as fast as I possibly could. 
I don't want to get exhausted hacking at you from range. I want to ... kill you while I'm still fresh, 
because that's my best chance. I will try to make this the shortest fight possible. It might not be a crowd pleaser, 
but it's the way to keep myself alive most. And yet these guys equipped like this 
would fight for ages, but you could really sell it, you could make it look good. You can impress the crowd with lots of clashing, 
and manoeuvring around and the like. And perhaps you get a couple of little minor wounds, 
but you keep going. They'll like that. And you get bits of your shield perhaps chopped away, 
and they'll quite like that, that's quite impressive. And people like watching things 
being destroyed, don't they? So it seems that they'll be stringing these fights out. How could you make a fight, a duel, a sword fight, between 
two guys who have largely unarmoured torsos, vital areas, how can you make it last 20 minutes unless you're sort of 
cooperating with your other half, making it last that long. Now I had a look at the careers of Tyson 
and various people. Tyson fought 58 fights, Amir Khan is 34, Lennox Lewis 44, Conor McGregor 24. I looked at the top MMA fighters, about 30. These are the 
top guys, top guys are fighting about 30 fights in a career. And of course a lot of the lesser guys far fewer. So how many bouts are the gladiators fighting? Well, gladiators sometimes record, ... or had recorded 
for them, their ... results, just like modern boxing results, so many wins, so many draws, so many losses, 
on their headstones. Now there are of course plenty who 
only have a few fights ... listed on their headstone. And there's quite a definite drop off after 10, 
but there are guys with 150, 50, 80, ... right the way up to 150 bouts. Loads and loads and loads of bouts 
a lot of these guys have fought. There's the grave of a guy called Flamma 
was found in Sicily, and he was a gladiator, and it says on his tombstone that he fought 34 bouts, 
and he won 21 of them, drew 9, lost 4. Drew 9? Interesting ... drew 9, 
so draws were reasonably common, and these do get listed, 
quite a lot of guys fight to a draw. Really? How is it possible for 
two guys to fight for 20 minutes, and neither of them has even established 
himself as a winner, let alone kill the other guy? Right, 4 losses. 4 losses, so he didn't die, 
even though he lost 4 [3!] bouts. These guys are not fighting to the death. And we know about this guy that 
he was freed from slavery 4 times. He was freed. So ... having been freed, 
he went back to being a gladiator at least 3 times. Why would you do that if you 
thought you were going to die? If fighting in the arena were a 
death sentence, you wouldn't do that. Now there is a stat in a book by 
[Hopkins] ... and Mary Beard about the gladiators in the Colosseum 
(Flavian Amphitheatre) that tentatively estimates that about 8,000 people were 
killed in the gladiatorial arena every year at its height. And that's the figure I mentioned right 
at the start of this video you may remember. Just about, I know it was a long time ago. But, is that a lot? When I say 8,000 with that emphasis in my voice to 
make you think, "Wow, that's loads, 8,000, mass carnage!" I think I said at one point, something like that. Yeah, but let's think about this again. There were about 400 arenas 
in which these gladiatorial games happened. So 8,000 divided by 400 is only 20. All right, so 20 per arena, per year? Now how many ... days of gladiatorial fighting 
would there be per year? Nobody can say exactly. Particularly in the lesser, more far-flung 
arenas of the Empire. But a fair few. And I mentioned Trajan having 123 of them 
in about an 18 month period. The state was supposed to only put on about two a year, 
but loads of other people put on theirs. And Emperors, no one will stop 
them putting on loads. So there were a lot. 
So let's ... be not unreasonable. These are very big buildings, they must have had 
a hell of an expensive running cost, so you got to get your money back, 
you have got to put on a decent number of shows. Let's just say 12 a year, that's not that many. So 20 divided by 12, that's 1 and 2/3 on average. 1 and 2/3 deaths per day of gladiatorial games. And that's the average, don't forget that 
in the lesser, far-flung ones it's probably only duels and so forth happening, rather than loads and loads of clashes 
with large numbers of men all fighting. So, you'd imagine then that quite a lot of them, 
typically, there would be no deaths at all. As I say Nero's time, Suetonius says that 
there was a major games with no deaths at all. But ... just taking that 8,000, dividing it 
by 400 ... you end up with ... hmm. A lot of these would have been no deaths at all. 
And the average is 1 and 2/3 deaths. But wait, I didn't say gladiator deaths, 
I said deaths in the arena. From all causes, including accidents and including, 
this is the biggie, including executions. Most of the people who died were being sent in 
in order to die. They were being executed. They were arsonists, they were child snatchers, what else? ... There were traitors, oh, there were also 
some of them were tax evaders as well. So yes, you could end up being executed in the arena, 
but ... that's part of that figure of 8,000. So if it was on average, 
... so the average is less than one gladiator. I couldn't tell you precisely, because for a start 
[8,000] is only an estimate, but it looks like the average number of deaths 
per games of gladiators was less than one. So now, looking at it with that perspective, it doesn't really seem quite ... so dangerous does it? And so we get back to these worrisome helmets. And this is the thought which 
kicked off this whole thing. I was looking at them and thinking, "Are those really 
the helmets of a showman, of a performer?" Because you can't see the performer's face. 
That's really odd. If your local theatre was showing some 
production with Michael Caine in it. Oh wow! You bought a ticket and paid extra to get in 
the front row, and Michael Caine is going to be in this. The curtain goes up and there's some various people on stage, 
and they're talking to each other in their characters. "When does Michael Caine come on? When does 
Michael Caine come on? Because he's really famous, he's the guy I ... really paid to see." And then a door opens and in comes this guy wearing 
a mask, and he has the voice of Michael Caine. "Michael Caine's wearing a mask? 
Oh, this is very odd. I wasn't expecting that entrance, there you go, there'll be a reason for this." And he keeps the mask on for the whole play, 
and even during the bows. So you ... paid extra to be in the front row 
and you never saw his face. This guy, ... you wanted to see him, 
you know, in the flesh, and just saw a mask. You'd want your flipping money back, wouldn't you? And yet gladiators, who got famous as individuals, 
wore face-obscuring helmets. And what about the showmanship of it? I mean, 
you can read a face from really quite a distance. If you've watched theatre [plays] from up in the gods, 
... or gone to a sporting match, you know that you can actually read the 
expression on a face from quite a long way away. Think how much everyone's going to want 
to see the face of their favourite gladiator as he's facing this other one, as they 
walk together, "Oh, I bet ... " you can't see his face. When he gets wounded, did he grimace? 
Did he not grimace? What's he planning? You can't see the guy's face. 
... I want to see the guy's face, that's where the drama is. This is where the drama is, look, hah, drama, see. And yet these helmets obscure the face, 
and they really obscure the face. I mean, they've gone to some trouble, 
they have very broad rims, particularly at the front. They are big shiny, shiny, shiny helmets, so 
the sun's beating down on this bronze and zinging off it, and these big broad brims at the front, 
which often come round the side like that as well, will cast really deep shadows over the face, 
which then is behind a grill as well. You stand no chance in the audience 
of reading what's on that guy's face. Why would it be so important 
to obscure a gladiator's face? Because if you look at the helmets 
that the soldiers are wearing at the time, they look like this. 
They don't obscure the face at all. So is it because, oh, the safety consideration, 
because someone might get hurt? Well, yeah, they are gladiators, they're 
fighting each other, they're supposed to get hurt. ... No, it's not safety it's do with. Ah, maybe you don't want them scarred on the face. 
Well, why is that not important for soldiers? And besides, a bit of scarring on the face 
might make a gladiator look more gladiatorial. A bit more gnarly and intimidating or something. No, I can't see any reason why gladiators would 
be particularly afraid of getting a scar into the face, whereas soldiers, "Oh, that's all right." No, if a soldier's practical helmet is a 
good design for fighting in, and staying alive in, and being able to see and hear what's going on 
and act and react, well then surely that would be 
the helmet that gladiators would wear? But they don't. They wear these 
specific face-obscuring helmets. Okay, so why is that then? Well, how about, and here I'm just conjecturing, 
nobody can tell you that I'm wrong, it's entirely up to you - nobody can tell you 
that I'm right either - it's entirely up to you, I'm going to put the argument to you and you're going 
to think, well, maybe that's a good idea, maybe it's not. But how about this? It's to make it easier to cheat. You see, you don't really want your gladiator to die, 
but you want to put on a good show. So what would make that really easy is 
if the gladiators could communicate with each other, but not such that the audience can see. Well, if nobody can see your lips move 
and you've got a helmet down like this, then you could talk quietly to the guy right in front of you, 
and you could tell him all sorts of things. So there you are, you're thinking of fighting him, 
you're making movements like this. And these movements don't mean anything 
to the general audience, they just think, "Oh, he's looking for an opening, 
he's trying to read the other guy's movements." But actually if you could hear what he was saying, 
he's saying, "Okay. Yeah. I'm going to go with this hand, okay, that guy over there, I'm going to go 
for that guy there, that guy on the right, okay? And when I count to three, okay, I'm going to 
lunge for you, I'm going to lunge for you a bit like that, okay, and then I'm going to go for that guy over there. So you then, when I make the lunge for you, you take 
a step back give me room, and I'll go dive over there, you'll be fine, I'll be fine. It'll be great. 
Okay, one, two, three." And then you make the move. 
You can organise this move if you can just talk quietly, and nobody can see you 
conspiring with your immediate opponent. And you can set up all sorts 
of prearranged signals. A lot of the gladiators who fought in these fights 
were from the same gladiatorial school. They would have been able to over months organise 
all sorts of really good, convincing looking routines. Now, you might think, "Well surely though, 
people would know that it was all faked." Well, I'm not saying it's all 100% fake. But there is, 
is there not, a conspiracy between audience and performer? When fans of The Rock and The Undertaker, 
or Big Daddy and Giant Haystacks, what have you, watch those choreographed, you might think 
very unconvincing, wrestling matches. The people are really into it, 
they suspend their disbelief quite willingly. They want it to be real, they believe in these characters, 
and they just go with it. When you go to the cinema, 
yeah okay, it's set in a galaxy far, far away, but yeah, you just accept it. There are spaceships and 
those TIE fighter things, they can actually fly somehow. Even in an atmosphere it seems. Anyway. So ... there is a willing suspension of disbelief. So the 
crowd wants ... to believe that it's true, and so it sort of will. And you've got months of rehearsal in these 
gladiator schools, you can make it look really good. And of course some of it's real, 
and some of the wounds ... will be completely real. But you can do all sorts of negotiations 
and set up all sorts of routines with your opponent, if nobody can see your face. So there you go. There is my conjecture for 
why gladiator helmets look like this, and not like this. Am I right? You decide. [ So, not so much a bizarre ritual of slaughter, 
and more of a popular but quite dangerous sport. ] Lindybeige! [ In 1978, in the USA, 6,045 people 
died in sports-related accidents. ] [ This took four days to edit, and I don't think I've 
ever been so sick of the sound of my own voice. ] 