Top 10 Most Popular Speedrunning Videos
Hello ladies and gents, it’s EZScape. Being quarantined sucks, and it’s gotten
to the point that I have completely ran out of speedrunning videos to watch. But this made me wonder, are there any big
speedrunning videos out there that not even I know about? I mean speedrunning has been around for over
20 years, and there are quite a few games that have levels or modes with speedrun in
the name and there’s even a game called speedrunners, so I wouldn’t be surprised
if there were some obscure videos out there with a huge number of views on them. I’ve always known speedrunning was really
popular, so in today’s video let’s see just how much. I hope you all enjoy. The first spot on this list comes from the
speedrunning commentary channel called Apollo Legend for his video 10 Speedrunners Who Were
Caught Cheating. I remember exactly when this video came out
because after it was posted it was getting so many views every speedrunning commentary
channel was blowing up just from the runoff. I was getting 4 times my normal daily views
without posting a single video at all. For a long time before this we never really
knew what the view cap was for speedrunning commentary content. There was my Accidental Skips Discoveries
video and Apollo’s Top 10 Luckiest Moments In Speedrunning which were 3 or 4 million
views at the time so we estimated the cap to be around 5 million views, but this video
blew that right out of the water. And honestly, I’m not surprised in the least. Cheaters in speedrunning have always brought
in a lot of views, so a single digestible video featuring 10 cheaters, back when not
a lot of videos like these existed was bound to be successful. I was still left with the impression that
speedrunning videos that weren’t about cheaters may never grow to the same success, but since
then we’ve seen some amazing videos from Summoning Salt, Karl Jobst and Bismuth that
have given a strong argument that good speedrunning content will always have the potential to
do well even if they aren’t about cheaters. I would like to note that I’m not a huge
fan of the cheating videos as it does give the image that speedrunning is riddled with
cheaters, but you do have to remember that in all of these videos the cheaters were caught
and exposed. Getting away with a cheated run is very difficult
nowadays as you need to build a certain reputation within the community before anyone will give
your “world record speedrun” the time of day. I really like the point that Karl Jobst made
in his video about the Worst Fake Speedrun on Youtube that cheating is much more often
to happen at the top level, people that feel like they deserve the result of a world record
because of their skill and talent combined without being able to execute that perfect
run. Without having inside knowledge or ripping
completely off someone else’s speedrun it’s very unlikely for some random person to waltz
on in and climb to the top in say only a month’s time. I think the biggest reason why we don’t
see more cheaters is because there is very little benefit to doing so. All of the people that have cheated thus far
gained small notoriety within their communities and usually did all of their gameplay offline
which means no Twitch following, just a YouTube video which often wouldn’t do well without
having that streamer engagement which is a big part of what makes world record runs so
much fun to watch. I’ve actually seen a lot of articles that
try to spin the narrative the other way, some of which I actually was interviewed for, but
my input was not included because it didn’t fit that narrative. So, I just wanted to get my feelings on that
out there as nobody has ever really discussed this in a video before, but hey I have no
problem with cheating videos too be honest, hell I’ve even made one myself. These videos introduce a lot of people to
speedrunning that would otherwise never know about it, and I’d have to assume that’s
a net positive for the community. The next run on this list is a Minecraft Set
Seed Glitchless speedrun posted by Funderful. Traditionally with speedrunning videos, the
ones with the highest number of views tends to be world record runs for obvious reasons. But in this case Funderful’s run wasn’t
a world record and was nearly a minute behind another runner called TheeSizzler, so how
in the world did it become the most viewed Minecraft speedrun? Well if you’re getting 11 million views
on a speedrunning video, majority of the audience most likely has no idea what speedrunning
is outside of the video they’re watching. They probably have no idea leaderboards exist
and that world record times are highly contentious, they just wanted to see the game be beaten
quickly. I did take a look at TheeSizzler’s channel
and it didn’t take me long to figure out why his videos weren’t blowing up to the
same degree, at least at the time this video was posted. None of his runs have the word speedrun in
the title which means he’s far less likely to show up on search or be shown in the suggested
videos for other speedrunning content, and therefore way less likely to get a featured
spot on recommended, especially if the video isn’t monetized, which I’m not sure if
it is or isn’t. But Funderful’s video did have the word
speedrun in it and was monetized so he ended up getting a lot of time on recommended. If anything, this is proof that if you’re
a speedrunner you should always be posting your personal best speedruns on YouTube and
putting a decent amount of thought into your titles since you really never know who may
stumble across your video. I know not every speedrunner is worried about
expanding their brand or getting a ton of views, but keep in mind that your videos not
only impact yourself but the entire speedrunning community and how many new people get involved
with it, and that little bit of effort definitely goes a long way, especially in this case. The next run on this list a Super Mario Odyssey
speedrun by TheOdd1sOut also featuring JaidenAnimations and SomethingElseYT on commentary. This video was posted on January 29th 2018,
only a few months after the release of the game. Since its release Super Mario Odyssey has
been a contender for the most popular game to speedrun around the world, but that’s
only partially the reason for this video doing so well. The Odd1sOut is one of if not the most popular
animation channel on YouTube right now, well known for his story time videos that I find
hilarious. So, I think the video’s success was a combination
of Super Mario Odyssey being the third most popular game on the switch with 16.59 million
sales, the combined popularity of all of the creators featured in it, and also the easily
digestible long form content that comes with creating a speedrunning video. Usually when people watch speedruns they watch
most of if not the entire run, and that watch time build up really helps videos perform
well on the platform. Also, TheOdd1sOut edited down the speedrun
including majority only highlights, so in a way he was way ahead of the curb as far
as speedrunning content creation goes. Regardless I thought it was a fun video and
hopefully introduced a bunch of people to speedrunning that previously hadn’t heard
of it. And even though this speedrun was far from
optimal, no offense James, I thought it was really fun to watch through with a lot of
great moments between the trio. Before moving on with the video I want to
talk about a fundraiser I’m currently running to support Feeding America. If you haven’t heard of this charity before
it’s one of the biggest charities in the US dedicated to providing resources for food
pantries, soup kitchens, and shelters. Given the current crisis and food shortages
it’s really important to me to help support this charity. And in order to help promote the charity and get
more people active in speedrunning I will be creating 10 to 20 new speedrunning competitions, all of which will have $250
prize pools each. Basically, how this is going to work is I
will be announcing 10 competitions every single day after this video is posted over on my
second channel EZScape Speedruns which already has the first competition posted. And for every $1500 raised for Feeding America
I will be creating an additional $250 competition until we reach our goal of $15,000 is reached and if
get past that goal I will create Something even bigger, I just don't know what it is yet It’s really important to me with these competitions
that anyone will be able to participate in them and that top times will not be required
to win. I’ll make sure to provide the resources
and learning tools in each video’s description to get you all started on your very first
speedruns. The donation link will be in the pinned comment
and in the description which will redirect you to softgiving. In your donation comments let me know which
games and categories you would like to see competitions made for. I’d also be really interested in running
some bingo, TAS, randomizer, and romhack tournaments if anyone has any good ideas for those. Thank you for listening and I hope you enjoy
the rest of the video. Next on this list is the Banned from PS4 Speedrun
in 1 minute and 5 seconds by spllitz with 14 million views. In this speedrun spllitz utilized his knowledge
of the PS4 home screen to perform lightning fast menuing and headed to the PS wallpaper
community. An interesting strat he used here was skipping
over the anime community as posting porn in there would probably give the opposite effects
of getting banned. After posting the image the rest of the speedrun
was in the hands of moderation team RNG. (Leave a thumbs up if you appreciate the Closed Captions :) Alright so last video had 14 million views,
but now we are jumping ahead to a whopping 20 million views. This is a speedrun I think everyone was expecting
to see on this list, so there’s no real surprise when I say the next run is DoodleBob
and the Magic Pencil Walkthrough/Speedrun in 25 minutes by Listern. If you for some reason haven’t heard of
this game before let’s check out this several paragraph Wikipedia article that somebody
actually spent time creating. Apparently, this is a fan game made by TechnoSuperguy
and chaser2008 the creators of Techno the Hedgehog if anyone has ever heard of that. This game was meant to be a birthday present
for the creator’s brother and in that context it’s honestly pretty wholesome. I spent some time playing this game on stream
and was expecting it to be way worse than what it actually was. I feel like the pencil mechanics were pretty
creative despite the levels being short with the drawn platforms only needing to be used
maybe 2 or 3 times, and there being no reason to kill enemies as you could just damage abuse
straight through them. Most of the bosses could be cheesed easily
by standing high up on a drawn platform, but I actually really enjoyed the final boss fight
which was pretty challenging and even died on because I wasn’t expecting it to be so
difficult. But why does this have 20 million views on
YouTube? I have no idea...
Next up on this list is a speedrun of the most popular flash game in the world, the
world’s hardest game. This game was published in 2008 by Snubby
Land with a very simple premise. Move a red square to the end of each level
all while avoiding blue circles. But while the premise is simple, actually
maneuvering around the levels is extremely difficult which is why the game is accurately
dubbed the world’s hardest game. So there were 2 videos I could have picked
out for this list the first being Shiro’s 6 minute and 39 second deathless speedrun
of the game at 11 million views, but there’s actually a playthrough of this game that was
posted a year before it by Hachimen which was also deathless in a time of 8:37. This wasn’t initially listed as a speedrun,
but due to the nature of the run it definitely qualifies and also has 16 million views. Since then Hachimen has improved his time
to a 5:59 which is a 5th place time on the leaderboards. But the most interesting thing about his most
recent run is it was posted on October 18th, 2018, and his first personal best was posted
on October 18th, 2008, exactly 10 years apart from each other. It really is not that often you see someone
remain active in the community after so many years. I recently watched Nicroveda play through
this game and it was crazy to see how someone so skilled at several different video games
getting absolutely demolished by this game. It took him roughly 3 hours and 643 deaths
just to get to the final level. So, could you really consider this the world’s
hardest game? I’m not so sure… but the world’s hardest
game 2 is a whole other story Next up on this list is Getting Over It with Bennett Foddy by Lockness06 with 22 million
views. Getting Over It was released as part of the
Humble Bundle in 2017 and is well known for being a really difficult platformer. You use your mouse to scale up this mountain
all while trying to avoid misstepping which would otherwise cause you to fall and lose
a ton of progress. Naturally these easy to understand games with
difficult objectives are popular in speedrunning as runners try to understand nuances of the
basic mechanics and path optimal routes. But this video wasn’t actually posted by
Lockness06, it was posted by IGN. Yeah, around this time IGN noticed the spike
in popularity of video game speedruns and would reach out to several speedrunners and
ask permission to post their speedruns on their channel. If you’re a speedrunner and IGN ever approaches
you with this offer, say no. Because while you may be thinking, but EZScape
if this video got 22 million views wouldn’t that be amazing exposure towards my Twitch
channel? Who cares if IGN reposts the video, monetizing
it and gaining 10s of thousands of dollars and subscribers for doing practically nothing? Well if we check socialblade Lockness at most
gained 200 total followers on Twitch for the 22 million views. So, you can clearly see here how this isn’t
worth it. But I do have to give credit where credit
is due as I have really been enjoying IGN’s devs react series on YouTube where they have
game developers react to speedruns of the video games they created. It’s unique content that we haven’t really
seen before outside of GDQ. My personal favorite is the DOOM Eternal one
they recently put out. I’d highly recommend checking that out,
and I just hope IGN stops reposting full game speedruns. The next videos on this list are the animated
speedrunning videos made by TerminalMontage. I really cannot emphasize how much
exposure these videos have given to our community with the most viewed video being this Breath
of the Wild any% no amiibo speedrun. Just to show how much impact this video had
on the community most breath of the wild videos about the any% category that still have the
most views today were also posted basically the same month as this video, and I really
don’t see it merely being a coincidence. This content is very entertaining and also
gets the outside community interested in checking out what the speedruns look like in the actual
game. Honestly, I just think this creator makes
amazing content and my favorite video from them would have to be their video Speedrunner
Mario vs Melee Fox which is just absolute perfection. I’ll be sure to have it linked in the description
and I recommend you check it out if you haven’t already. Alright guys we are getting pretty close to
the end of this list. Before I show the next speedrun video I want
to show you guys something I stumbled across during research. For some reason in late 2011 to early 2013
Mario game TASes and speedruns were popping off on YouTube recommended and getting an
insane number of views with engagement otherwise being very low. The videos literally look like they were viewbotted,
but they definitely were not. Let me show you what I found. First is a Super Mario 64 120 Star Speedrun
by Elmo which was posted on May 18th, 2011. Outside of the other speedruns I’ll be mentioning
in this section there is no real surprise to why this video did so well as when it was
posted it was a world record. In the early stages of SM64 120 star world
record history, when the game was really starting to pick up traction, the first sub 1 hour
and 50 minute run was monumental for the time and the leaderboards were absolutely dominated
by Japanese runners like Batora, Shigeru, Honey, Nero and of course Elmo all until Siglemic
came around and started claiming records in late 2011. Let me quickly go over the rest of the videos. New Super Mario Bros DS TAS, 9 million views. Super Mario 64 70 Star BLJLess TAS 16 million
views. New Super Mario Bros Wii 100% Speedrun 10
million views. New Super Mario Bros U any% speedrun 36 Million
views. “This has more views than Wii U’s Sold”
yeah, they aren’t kidding. I really didn’t want to have a bunch of
Super Mario speedruns take up all of the spots of the video so I kept them to this one spot,
but the one I really wanted to talk about that I think is the most interesting is this
16 star TAS of Super Mario 64 posted in December of 2006 with nearly 36 million views. This was the first Super Mario 64 TAS ever
posted to YouTube and was also the 4th full game TAS ever made which used the 16-star
route. There’s no real surprise why this video
has so many views, it was most likely one of the first full playthroughs of Super Mario
64 on YouTube, was captured from an emulator so it had good video quality compared to most
capture devices available at the time, and it beat the game in an unbelievable short
time, who wouldn’t watch it? God I can only imagine the confusion on peoples’
faces if it was their first-time seeing Mario BLJ across every level. Unfortunately, the YouTube channel that uploaded
the video WebNations has comments disabled across every video, and I’m not really sure
why. I would have loved reading back through some
of those old comments, oh well. If you’ve ever watched any tool-assisted
speedruns from back in the day you may have actually stumbled across this YouTube channel
at some point, and I was curious why it was uploading TAS videos instead of… well TASVideos. Apparently from reading the bio the owner
of this channel used to be the owner of the websites speedruns.org and speedruns.net and
by using waybackmachine they just appear to be some general speedrunning websites. I’m assuming they were abandoned due to
Speeddemosarchive and TASvideos existing and not wanting to compete with them. But this WebNations channel was a director
YouTube account back in the day which meant it could upload videos that were over 10 minutes
long and is a big reason why so many of these longer speedruns and TASes are archived today. Before we get to the final video on this list,
I want to cover one video that I’m sure everyone was expecting to see on this list,
but it was just shy of beating the number 10 spot. I’m of course talking about the 4:56.878
any% speedrun of Super Mario Bros by Darbian. This speedrun was one of the biggest milestones
to ever be completed in Super Mario Bros and a spectacle to the outside world for so many
reasons. Darbian just has this sort of calm presence
throughout the entire speedrun, but as it persists you can noticeably see his heart
rate counter go up, the chat begin to get enthusiastic as everyone knows they are about
to witness greatness. The ending is just emphatic, Darbian breaks
character after so long and you just see the face of someone who has worked hard to accomplish
something so difficult that nobody has ever done before. I also found a Reddit post by Darbian where
he explains why he felt this run was so special to him personally. What’s funny is Darbian only expected this
record to last a few weeks, but it would end up taking a year and 15 days for him to finally
break it again. I guess I felt the need to include this run
on the list as Darbian is such an influential speedrunner to so many people. But one day, like the Avatar, he vanished. But after his 20-month hiatus Darbian has
once again returned to speedrunning and recently posted a Q&A video explaining his absence. I just have huge respect for Darbian for making
this video discussing depression and anxiety, something which I don’t feel like is discussed
enough especially in gaming circles and is even stigmatized at points. I feel like I wouldn’t have made this video
when I made it if I hadn’t watched his video first. It’s completely normal to feel that type
of way sometimes, and sometimes it really isn’t under your control, and I think it's okay to
seek help and talk about it. If you’re a fan of Darbian and have been
wondering where he has been or just feel like this is a video that could help you out as
well, I’ll have it linked in the description. on, and that’s pretty much all I want to
touch on that in this video. So, without further ado the last speedrun
on this list is Let’s Play ROBLOX #3 Speedrun 4 by Family Gaming TV. Now I don’t know much about Roblox, but
let’s go ahead and check this video out. This video has about the same amount of views
as my entire YouTube career… Alright everybody I hope you enjoyed this
video. 