In our universe, when you change from a non-moving
perspective to a moving one, or vice versa, that change of perspective is represented
by a what's called Lorentz transformation, which is a kind of squeeze-stretch rotation
of spacetime that I've mechanically implemented with this spacetime globe. A quick reminder - spacetime diagrams plot
position on the horizontal axis and time on the vertical axis, and something moving as
time passes traces out a path through spacetime called a worldline. One of the first things you might notice about
Lorentz transformations is that events that were at different places at the same time
before the transformation aren't at the same time after the transformation. This means that from the perspectives of people
going different speeds, simultaneous events for one person won't be simultaneous for the
other, and vice versa. For example, if from my perspective these
two boxes spontaneously combust at the same time, and you're moving at a third the speed
of light to my right, then from your perspective, that is, the perpective from which you're
not moving so your worldline is purely vertical, from your perspective the box on the right
will combust first, and the box on the left will combust second. The takeaway here is that our universe has
neither an absolute notion of time nor an absolute sense of simultaneous events, and
that simultaneity breaks down more the farther away from each other two things are – a
box even farther to the left that from my perspective simultaneously spontaneously combusts
with the others will, from your moving perspective, be even farther out of sync with the box on
the right. This is described by the time part of the
Lorentz Transformation equations, the part that says t new = gamma times t minus v times
x over c squared). Because of the x in there, the farther away
an event is from you, the more its time from the new perspective will be out of sync with
events closer to you. Though because of the factor of c squared
in the denominator, which is huge, it's hard to notice anything being out of sync until
either your speed or distance to the object in question are really really really big – like,
you'd have to be going half the speed of light and be comparing things farther apart than
the earth and moon before things would become more than 1 second out of sync. But in that case, events that were simultaneous
from my perspective really would be out of sync for you! As surprising as this may seem, it might feel
more familiar and comfortable when you remember that this “getting out of alignment” phenomenon
happens to points at the same place in space, too, which is literally what we think of as
defining motion – from my perspective, this box is at the same position at different times
– that is, it's not moving; maybe, “simulspacious”– but from your moving perspective it's at different
positions at different times – it is moving. Relativity of simultaneity is just the other
side of the coin – the fact that events that happen at the same time at different
spatial positions happen at different times when viewed from a moving perspective. All together, in our universe, the takeaway
is this: events that were previously either all at the same place or all at the same time
get out of alignment with each other when you change to a moving perspective. A big thanks again to Mark Rober for making
the spacetime globe a reality, and to dive 