[G-LOG #200424 #HOME #SOCIAL DISTANCING #MBTI]
I will start the test. What does this mean? Wow, that's right! My results are.. Hi~ [UMJI's MBTI is finally being revealed!] Today.. Today Today! What I will be doing today is something the fans have been curious about for a while now. I will test myself to find my MBTI personality type. Wow! It feels like there's not much you can do in your room, but as a matter of fact, there are actually quite many things to do. So I was thinking about doing something different, and what I decided to was to test my MBTI personality. I have my tablet PC right beside me. I will now go to the website to test my MBTI~ Since I'm home, I'm wearing a very comfortable pajama t-shirt with a drawing of a bear that is standing like 'ha~', like this. Over here.. I have the doll many people worry about. [She looks like a rabbit hunter, but if you don't grab the neck, it will fall over.] I'm also very embarrassed. Right. An MBTI personality test you can do in your room~ There are many questions. I will start the test. The first question is: You find it difficult to introduce yourself to others. Average. You often find yourself ignoring or forgetting things around you,
while being immersed in your own thoughts. Average. You try to reply to your e-mails as fast as possible, and you can't stand a disorganized inbox. What should I choose? I kind of want to choose "Average" for all of these questions, whenever I take tests like these. Always. I don't really pay attention to my inbox. So I will go for "Not really". You can easily and calmly maintain your concentration even when you are under pressure. Not really. You usually don't start a conversation. This depends on the people and on the situation. It always depends on who I'm talking to and what situation it is. So.. This is hard. No. I'm kind of.. No! Rarely do you act out of pure curiosity. No, I have a lot of curiosity. You think you are better than others. Don't you think there are some areas you're good at, and other areas you're not as good at? So I'll choose "Average". I should choose "Average" for questions I'm not sure of, right? Having an organized system is more important than adapting well. In what area? In what situation are they talking about? Having a system is more.. Both are important, though. Then I'll choose "Average". You are very motivated and active. Slightly agree. Winning a debate is more important than not offending the other person. No. You often feel like you have to justify yourself to others. Yes. Your house and your work environment are well organized. Average. Next page. How long will this take? I  hope it doesn't take too long. Ah, there are 5 pages. I am not interested in getting attention. No. You consider yourself as a more realistic person than a creative person. I'm both realistic and creative. What should I do? [Realistic / Creative] Average. You rarely get angry because of other people. [UMJI doesn't just keep it in.]
No. You usually plan thoroughly before traveling. There are times when I want to go on a planned trip, and there are times when I want to go on a spontaneous trip, with no plans at all. What should I do then? Slightly agree? Ah I don't know.. You often find it difficult to empathize with others' feelings. No. There are times when you have severe mood swings. Slightly agree. During a discussion, the truth should be more important than the sensitive reactions of other people. The truth should be more important, but I think I tend to look and care about other people's reactions first. So "Not really." You rarely worry about how your actions affect others. Not at all. Well, to me, after I do something, I care a lot about other people's thoughts, and how they would see me, things like that. Your work style is closer to spontaneous bursts of energy than to organized and consistent efforts. Ah, this also depends on the situation. But I think I have to choose "Average". You often envy others. Doesn't this apply to everyone? Yes. Slightly agree. Interesting books or video games are often better than social gatherings. I don't like any of these three that much. I don't read a lot of books, I'm really not good at games, and there are times when social gatherings are a bit uncomfortable. So this is 'video games and books', and this is 'social gatherings'. I have to compare these two, right? Then.. I prefer meeting people. Not really. Planning and implementation are the most important parts of any project. Yes. Okay, I'm finally halfway done. There is nothing exciting about daydreaming and ideas. No. You're often lost in thought when walking through nature. Yes. When someone doesn't reply to your e-mails fast, you start worrying if you said something wrong. Yes. As a parent, you hope your children will grow to be kind rather than smart. I don't know what they mean by 'kind'. I think it means 'well-behaved', right? Slightly agree. You don't allow others to influence your behavior. Is this question asking me if I ask others for advice? Do I not allow others to influence my behavior? Not really. Don't you sometimes change a little after hearing someone else's opinion? I am a little stubborn, but when I'm hesitant about something, I think I ask others for advice. Your dreams tend to focus on the real world and events. Slightly agree. You socialize easily with other people at work. No. You improvise rather than planning ahead. Ah, this really depends on the situation. Ah, do I plan or do I not? I do both.. Then I'll choose "Average". You tend to be controlled by your emotions rather than you controlling them. Slightly agree. You enjoy going to social gatherings that require formal attire or involve role-playing activities. Not really. You often spend time thinking about something unreal and absurd, but interesting at the same time. Yes. Rather than having a planned routine, you usually end up doing what you feel like at any given moment. I said I'm both.. Really.. I like to plan a lot when its necessary, and I am very spontaneous as well. What should I do.. But I think I like to move according to the plan when I'm with people, and I think I'm spontaneous when I'm alone. So I think I have to choose "Not really". I'm not sure. You have a rather introverted and quiet personality. I don't think so, "Not really". But there are people who do think I am introverted and quiet. But can someone who talks a lot be an introvert? [She officially said she talks a lot.]
Then I'm not. If you're doing a business, it's difficult to fire an employee who's faithful, but not successful. Wouldn't they become successful one day if they are faithful? Slightly agree. You often think of the reason for human existence. Slightly agree. When it comes to making important decisions, logic is usually more important than the heart. Logic is more important. Withholding choices is more important than knowing exactly what to do. What does this mean? The wording is too hard. Withholding choices is more important than knowing exactly what to do. What does this mean? Why can't I understand the question? Am I dyslexic? I'll choose "Average" because I don't know. When a friend is sad, rather than offering a way to deal with the problem, you often provide mental support. I think providing both mental support and a solution is the most ideal thing to do. [Wise UMJI] I do both things. But mental support I first support, so I'll choose "Slightly agree". I rarely feel unstable. Not much anxiety for me. No. You make a schedule and keep it well. I do what I have to do but I'm not that good at organizing those systematically - so I'll go for "Average". When you do a teamwork, it's more important to behave properly than to be cooperative. What would this mean? If I am doing something together with someone, it's more important to behave properly than to be cooperative. When dealing with teamwork, isn't being cooperative a proper behavior? Or is it not? What? What? Since it's important to behave properly, "Slightly agree". Regardless of whether their opinions are based on facts, you think everyone's views should be respected. If what they say doesn't really make any sense, should that be considered? Average? Not really. After spending time with many people, you feel energetic. Not really. You often do not put things where they belong. Slightly agree. The reason why I chose "Not really" for the question, 'After spending time with many people, you feel energetic', is not because I don't like it. But it's because my energy doesn't charge up from that, rather, I really spend all my energy for that occasion, and then have a separate time for recharging my energy after that. When I meet up with a lot of people, I have so much things to worry about, so all my nerves become very sensitive. So I really try to have a time for myself after. As you know, this really depends on a person's personality. Ah? I'm finally on the last page of the test. You believe you're very emotionally stable. Slightly agree. I don't think it's 100% for me. You always have new ideas and plans flowing in your head. Slightly agree. You don't consider yourself a dreamer. Not sure, so going for "Average". You think it's hard to keep yourself calm when talking in front of so many people. No. In general, you rely more on your experience than on imagination. I rely more on experiences. Although I like to imagine. Then, "Slightly agree". You care too much about what other people think. Yes. If the room is full of people, you place yourself closer to the wall than to the center of the room. Yes. You tend to put off work until you run out of time. Average. I get very anxious when I'm stressed. I don't get anxious. It's just very tough, when I get stressed. I feel like digging steeply down. But that's a bit different from anxiety, right? So, "No". You think it's more rewarding to win the favor of others than to have power. Yes. You are always interested in books, art or movies,
something that can be interpreted in different and various ways. Slightly agree. You often take the leading initiative in social situations. Average. Turned it in. How will it be! For me... I got INFJ. [UMJI's MBTI is INFJ!]
Oh~ A prophet type. So I'm an INFJ. I'm suddenly so curious about what our other members would get. I'll talk about the explanations for INFJ types. You are very patient, insightful, and intuitive. And you have a good conscience and seek harmony. One of the words that makes me nod the most is 'insight and intuition'. I try to see things from a broader perspective, and try to figure out all sorts of things. For patience, I don't think I can judge myself on that. You're very creative and insightful - I think this makes sense. You have a strong intuition and you influence others without words. 'Without words' doesn't seem to apply, because I talk a lot. You have a strong sense of creativity and inner independence. This is right! I have a very strong inner independence. There are many spiritual leaders who embody their inspiration with firm faith and passion. Please understand if my pronunciation is a bit bad. It's because of my braces, okay? I think I have a firm faith and a firm passion. You embody your inspiration.. Why is the pronunciation so difficult? An area that values intuition and human-centered value. In other words, it is in the fields of 'clergy', 'psychological therapy and counseling', and 'art and literature'. Oh, I am doing arts! And I had interests in psychology or counseling in the past This type of people tend to immerse themselves into one thing, and treat peripheral conditions one must consider in order to achieve goals lightly, and there's a lot of conflict and complexity in themselves! True, there's really a lot in me! They have a rich inner life, and feel difficult to share what's on their mind with others. It sounds exactly right, seriously. Wow! This.. I didn't know MBTI was this good. Wow, look at this part..! Among the general characteristics I have here, there are so many entries that I agree with and approve of. Wow! Awesome. Things to be developed. They need to develop a sense of reality. I'm kind of realistic, aren't I? They need to practice smiling. (They might seem serious all the time) I smile a.. lot.. I think this is wrong. They need to express their feelings, not suppress them. This one is right, I think it's absolutely right. Now, I'm doing better than before, but.. Right. I really need to release my emotions instead of just keeping them all to myself. Wow, MBTI! It makes a lot more sense than I expected.. and it's just so amazing? But I guess the result might be slightly different if I do this again about two years later... Would it be? There might be some people that have different test results after a few years, right? Wow, anyhow, this is so cool. I think this test has a much better understanding of people than I expected? Partly because so many fans were curious about this, I've done this test thanks to all their support, and when I was taking the test, I was like, 'Why are there so many questions?', but when I looked at the result, I realized 'It was worth trying.' So when the results came out, I sort of became amazed by what they said. It's very interesting. Anyway, let me tell you my personality type. Guys, it says I'm the type, INFJ. UMJI's personality type is INFJ. Wow, type INFJ.. I wonder if there are any people with type INFJ around me. By the way, do people with the same MBTI type get along well? I'll look into this again later. I'm so curious which type Buddy would expect me to be. So, the MBTI test taken on UMJI's bed in her room is finally over~! INFJ! INFJ! [No one could be more happier about finding out their INFJ type than she is.]
INFJ! INFJ~ INFJ~ It says I'm type INFJ. Bye~ Wait a sec. [MBTI Twisted Drama.]
I've turned on the camera in a hurry. There's a good reason for this. While searching for information related to MBTI, I found another website for the test and I wanted to try it one more time, so I did, expecting to have different questions? The questions were the same as before, but I had five choices in the first test, which were Yes, Slightly agree, Average, Not really, and No, but this time, I had seven choices instead of five? I had done the first test while talking selecting whatever came to my mind, so easily, but this time I got this INFP as my personality type, unexpectedly. Since I got the INFP, I guess I have characteristics of both INFP and INFJ. Is this possible? Both types consist of the same INF, though. I got both INFP and INFJ as my personality type in one day. Anyway, this is what happened. Well, I'll just say my personality type is INF. MBTI is pretty fun. I've been staying at home a lot these days, so I wondered if there's anything worth doing, and I found this to be quite worthwhile. Bye for real, now. The End~ INF! 