Austin: Hey - look at that! Look at that. I don't exactly know... I don't know what
she looks like. At all. I guess I should explain what we're doing. (REWIND SOUND EFFECT) Hi. It's me, from the future. Talking about
the past. I dunno. So two years ago I released a video about
the stage play Harry Potter and the Cursed Child - specifically, what I didn’t like
about it. Six months later I made a follow-up video explaining how I would rewrite the story.
Go watch them if you want, I don’t care. An unintended side effect of releasing those
videos is that at least once a week I get an email from a Harry Potter fan either a)
begging me to write my version as a fanfic 2) begging me to let THEM write my version
as a fan fic. Or d) begging me to collaborate with them on a fanfic, in which I do all the
work, and they get all of the credit. Seriously. So a month after I released “Let’s Fix
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child”, I got this email from a girl named Kena: Dear Mr. McConnell, My friend and I came across your video “Let’s
Fix Harry Potter and the Cursed Child.” We loved your story. With your permission,
and/or your creative input, we’d love to partner with you to write this story as an
unofficial continuation to the Harry Potter series. To which *I* responded… "No." To which she continued: If you are not interested in partnering, we
would like to obtain your expressed permission to use elements of the story you have reworked
towards our own adaptation (crediting you, of course). To which I responded… "...I guess…" I wrote it off with dozens of other emails
I get from young fan fiction writers. Which, by the way, if you ARE a young fan fiction
writer contacting me: to save you the time, the answer is no. I’m sorry, I just have
too many obligations these days to commit myself to something like that. But good on
you if you do! And, good luck to you. But then on June 12 of this year I got another
email from Kena, basically telling me, "Hey Austin - just a heads up - we went ahead and
wrote the script by ourselves like we said we would... the play was accepted by the Hollywood
Fringe Festival, it’s been running in theaters for a few weeks, and we totes magotes forgot
to put your name in the program as the inspiration. Sorry. To which I responded “Wait… seriously?” Turns out, yes! Seriously! She then sent me
a copy of the screenplay, called Nineteen Years Later, and a link to the play’s official
website where they had cast and crew listings, and a place to purchase tickets. And my immediate thought was… “Wh-wh-wh-whoooh..." Can I come see it? And she was like, "Sure! I’ll reserve you
some tickets." So my buddy Lance and I booked a flight the
very next day to Los Angeles and before we knew it, we were meeting Kena and a couple
of the cast members at… wait, what was it called? "Griffith Observatory" to interview
them about the show. Anyway… that should bring you back up to
speed. BOY was I dressed like a dad that day... (FAST FORWARD SOUND EFFECT.) Austin: Hello! Kena: Hi. Austin: ...You're Kena? Kena: Yes. Austin: ...You're? Connor: Connor Austin: ...Connor. Boris: Boris! Austin: ...Boris! Nice to meet you. Kena: Nice to meet you! Austin: I'm Austin! Kena: Hi! Austin: So, uh... I dunno. Where do you wanna
go? Boris: Uh, well, there's some nice spots up
there in the park. Austin: Okay. Boris: It's a bit of a hike. Austin: Okay. Boris: Let's do it! Austin: What's "a bit of a hike"? Boris: It's like ten minutes. Austin. Okay. I can do that. Kena: *laughs* (CHILL HIP HOP TRACK) Austin: Come on in, guys. I can't do this
by myself. There's no way to explain this other than to just have you guys come explain
it. Okay! So! Who's the director? You're the director? Kena: No. Um... none of us are the director. *laughing* Austin: None - none of you are the director?
So, who are you? Kena: Um... I wrote it. Austin: She's the writer. You're the one who
emailed me. Kena: Yes. Austin: And you two play in this screenplay? Boris: Yeah. Connor: Yes we do. Kena: Well, it's a stage show. Austin: It's a stage - I keep forgetting - it's
not a script. It's an actual production. Kena: Yeah. Austin: Like, you've put together - you're
actors... Boris: Yes. Connor: Right. Austin: ... And you're on a stage. Connor: Yes. *laughter* Austin: Okay, so explain to me - walk me through
how this happened. Kena: Um... Austin: You came across this video... Kena: Yeah. We came across your video. We
watched it, and we were like, "Hey... that's SO much better. What if we wrote it?" And
we've been planning to go - we wanted to go to the Hollywood Fringe Festival anyway - which
is when we emailed you. Austin: ...And I blew you off. Kena: Well, you said, "I don't really wanna
write it. If you wanna say it's inspired, fine." Austin: Right. Kena: And so, we were like, "Okay! Cool!"
So we did. We had a stage reading in October, which - in March, we started rehearsing for
a full-mounted production for the Hollywood Fringe Festival. We were accepted into the
festival. It just kind of all came together. Every single performance has been sold out.
It's been getting reviews all over the place. Austin: So, this is like... this is not a
joke? Connor: No. *laughter* Austin: This is actually a show that's actually
playing? Kena: Yeah. Austin: Like, people watching this video can
watch it. They can buy tickets and go see it. Kena: Yes. Yes. Austin: Okay. So, first of all... *laughter* Austin: I feel like I should explain myself,
because I feel like I'm gonna come off bad in this video. *laughter* Austin: ...and I don't like that. So, when
you emailed me and you said, "Hey, would you like to work on this thing that we might submit
to the... Hollywood Fringe Festival? Is that what it's called? Kena: Mhmmm. Yeah. Austin: When I see the word "festival", I
think film festival. Kena: Oh. No. *laughs* Austin: So when you say, "Hey we're gonna
make this thing and we're gonna submit it to a film festival..." I think: It's a couple
kids, maybe they're in their back yard... they're gonna make a "Harry Potter Fan Film",
and they're gonna submit it to a festival, and it's gonna get rejected like all other
films that are made by, y'know, kids in their back yard... but when you emailed me BACK...
first of all, I found out it was a stage play. But, secondly I found out you guys are like...
actually are serious. You made this entire production... Kena: Mhmm. Austin: So, is this like, something you all
do regularly? Is this like a group of friends that do these stage shows? Or, how are you
all connected? Kena: I - I was the primary writer for it.
We are all actors. Austin: Right. Kena: Um, we're actors by trade. My dad has
a PhD in Screenwriting. So I grew up around writing. Austin: Oooh. Kena: I've written, um, novels since I was
little. Austin: Wow. Okay. Kena: Um, so writing is kind of my thing.
It's what I've done since I was young. I've never mounted a full-scale production of my
own work before. Austin: Right. And after you wrote it, what
happened then? Kena: Um, we had the staged - like I said,
the staged reading. Which, for those of you who don't know, a staged reading is a bunch
of actors on stage with minimal blocking, holding scripts in their hands. Austin: Right. Kena: We were in full costume... um... we
did have wands. Austin: Right. Kena: So, for a long time, things didn't happen,
until February, one of the girls from that production (who actually plays Hermione) contacted
me and said, "Hey - I still want to do this." And so, I brought her in as director. She
came into the production team, and we found the theater. The Hobgoblin Theater - which
is such a perfect name for a Harry Potter show. Austin: Right. "Hobgoblin." Absolutely. Kena: Yeah. So, we had the Hobgoblin, and
they offered us an incredible deal for the show. We were accepted into the Hollywood
Fringe Festival. I mean, because not everyone that applies gets to be accepted. Austin: Sure. Kena: So we were accepted, and then we cast
the show. We got actors... Austin: And so that's where you guys come
in? Connor: Mhmm. Boris: That's right. Austin: So, let's start with you. Boris. Boris: Yes. Austin: Look at that! I remembered. *laughter* Austin: How did you get to sit right here? Boris: I should probably admit now that I've
actually never read The Cursed Child. Kena: *laughs* Austin: Alright. Boris: I was... Austin: (to Kena) Is this the first that you're
hearing of this? Kena: Yeah! *laughter* Boris: Yeah. Austin: Okay! Boris: But I became familiar with it through
your video. And so I... *laughter* Austin: So the first exposure you have to
this book is me tearing it to pieces? Boris: Yeah. Austin: *laughs* Okay. I like it. Boris: I watched your video. I really like
it, and then I get a message from a friend of mine saying, "Hey, a friend of mine is
casting a Harry Potter show. Do you want to audition?" Austin: Right. Boris: I was like, "Sure! I like Harry Potter."
So, I get in contact with Kena. She was really nice and she sends me all the sides and I
do a tape, and I'm reading the script, because she sends me the whole script, and I realize...
hold on, Harry just cast Avada Kedavra... I think this is... Kena: Spoilers! Austin: Oh! Boris: You can bleep it out. Austin: Sorry. Boris: But that was the point where I was
like... okay... this is starting to sound familiar. And then I remembered, and I was
saying, "Is this Austin's rewrite?" and she said "Yes." Austin: So, you watched my video first... Boris: Yeah. Austin: ...Then somebody approaches you later... Boris: Yeah. Austin: ...And then you find out that it's
based on... my video? Boris: Yeah. Yeah. That's pretty much it. Austin: I dunno why any of this is happening. *laughter* Boris: Yeah, and... but they wanted to do
the original Fringe run first, so I wasn't available, so... I'm gonna be part of the
extension, which is happening in August. Austin: Right. So, you're going to play... Boris: Albus. Austin: Albus! Boris: Yeah. Austin: You're like... you're the guy. You
are The Cursed Child. Boris: Allegedly, yeah. *laughter* Austin: Allegedly. But you're not gonna play
in it tomorrow. Boris: No, not tomorrow. Austin: So, this is like a rotating cast. *laughter* Austin: And so, Connor... Connor: Conner, yes. Austin: Who do you play in this? Connor: I play Scorpius. Austin: You play Scorp - *laughs* I'm sorry.
This is ridiculous. *laughter* Austin: You play Scorpius. Connor: I play Scorpius. Austin: Okay, so tell me how you got to be
where we are right now. Connor: *laughs* Um, I... I met Ken, y'know,
our fabulous writer over here... um... we were doing another show together. It was my
first play ever, doing West Side Story... Austin: Right. Connor: Um, we became really good friends
on, um, y'know, backstage, and she was working on this show... this production, she was kind
of building it, and it had this team, and she was looking for actors, and um, she knows
I'm obsessed with Harry Potter. I'm a huge fan. Austin: Right. Connor: So, she was like, "Hey, would you
actually be interested in working on this thing that I wrote?" And I was like, "Yeah,
sure, I'll check it out..." cause, y'know, friends like offer you things all the time... Austin: Right. Connor: Sometimes they're not that great...
sometimes they are great. Kena: *laughs* Austin: Sure. Connor: But I read the script, and I was,
y'know, I was really impressed. I thought it was clever and thought it was like, funny,
and it was heartfelt, so I was like, "Yeah!" Yknow, "Let's go for it." y'know? I came in,
and I've been having a blast ever since. Austin: You're going to be playing Scorpius
in what we're gonna watch tomorrow? Connor: Tomorrow. Yes. Absolutely. Austin: 'Cause we're gonna go to this thing,
and we're gonna actually watch it. Connor: Yeah. You will see me tomorrow. Austin: I wanna see this show! *laughter* Austin: So, you're a big Harry Potter fan? Connor: I'm a huge Harry Potter fan. Austin: I have to ask you: what's your opinion
on The Cursed Child? *laughter* Austin: You can have a completely different
opinion than me. That's totally fine. Connor: No, uh... I'm- Austin: I'm not one of those crazy internet
guys who says you have to think what I think of this. Connor: No, no that's... I... I was not a
big fan of The Cursed Child. *laughter* Austin: Right. You can still be a Harry Potter
fan and not be a fan of a certain - Connor: Oh, no... yeah... Boris: It won the Tonys! Austin: Right! Connor: It did! It won a lot of Tonys! Kena: I've seen it! And it's wonderful to
watch in person. Austin: That's what I hear. I hear it's a
great show to see in person. Kena: The actors are incredible, and they
make something out of... something. Austin: Right. I mean, a show can still be
great to watch and not necessarily have the strongest of writing. Connor: Exactly. Austin: And it's amazing to see the divide
of people who say - people who've watched - Harry Potter fans who've watched the show
love it and rave about it. And those who have just read the screenplay say, "Ehhh. It's
weird. It's kinda..." Kena: Watching it is an entirely different
experience. Austin: Right. As it should be with a stageplay.
So, I'm trying to put into words... like... I get approached by people. I made this video
about a comic book I wrote when I was a kid a few weeks ago. And, after I released this
video, I get like 15 to 25 emails from people who say "Hey! I'm gonna rewrite that comic
as a legit thing. Will you help me work on this?" And, I go... "No!" *laughter* Austin: Because, why would you do that? *laughter* Austin: And... I feel guilty because - you
emailed me, and I blew you off. I mean, well, put yourself in my shoes. *laughter* Kena: Oh, yeah! It sounds crazy. Austin: A lot of people write fanfiction.
There's not many people that say, "Hey. I'm going to write a fan script, and then I'm
going to cast that script, I'm going to get a theater, I'm going to get costumes, and
makeup and all of the trimmings, and I'm gonna make an actual stage show around it. So, I
feel like I should, number one, issue an apology to you. *laughter* Austin: But also, not to just say that I'm
sorry, but to say that I am thoroughly impressed with... Kena: Well, thank you. Austin: ...what you've been able to accomplish.
And, um... I... you - you've proven me wrong, and I'm pleasantly surprised. I've never been
more pleasantly surprised to be shocked by the work of fans on the internet, and the
things that they can accomplish. We're gonna go see the stage play. Kena: Have YOU read the script? Austin: You're asking me? Kena: Yes. Austin: ...I'm gonna be honest with you. *laughter* Austin: I have not read the script. Now, you
sent me the script. Kena: I did. Austin: You sent me this email that basically
was like, "Hey... Hey, guess what, jerk?!" *laughter* Austin: "I did this without you!" *laughter* Austin: "Here's the script, if you wanna see
our show... I mean, this is what you're missing." I opened it up, and I read the first page,
and then I opened it up to the middle and I read another random page just to make sure
it wasn't some kind of trick. *laughter* Austin: ...that you were pulling on me. And
then I stopped, and I said "I don't want to read any more, because I want to go see it." Kena: That's fair. Austin: "And I want to go see it and I don't
want to know what I'm going to see before I see it." Kena: You kind of know... Austin: Well, I dunno! Cause I don't know
how true that you have stayed, Kena, to the author notes that I have provided you. *laughter* Austin: This is a... you said it's an hour
and forty minutes? Kena: Yes. Austin: ...With a ten minute intermission? Kena: Yes. Austin: It is a full stage show... Kena: ...with light up wand sound effects. Austin: There are sound effects?! Kena: There are sound effects. There are costumes... Austin: I can't wait to see this! *laughter* Austin: I - I'm so excited. So, it's not The
Cursed - It's called Nineteen Years Later. Kena: Yes. Austin: And it's going to be running in August? Kena: Yes. Austin: Okay. Uh... pick which camera you
want, and tell people when and where. Kena: It's going to be at the Studio/Space
Theater in Hollywood. It's Studio/Space Theater in Hollywood from August 15th to August 26th.
Um, there are thirteen - fourteen shows. So, fourteen performances... fourteen chances
to see Harry Potter on stage again. Austin: If you live in this area, go to it. Boris: If you DON'T live in this area, go
to it! *laughter* Austin: Right! I - I am so excited. I cannot
wait to see what this is like. Austin, narrating: So the next day I headed
out to the Hobgoblin Theatre on Hollywood Boulevard to meet the cast and crew, and to
watch the show. To be clear this was one of the more bizarre
experiences I’ve had. Dozens of people all coming together, working really hard on a
project I inspired. Hobgoblin is a small-scale theatre, and at
first sight, seemed like it probably wouldn’t amount to much… but before I knew it, the
theatre was packed. And backstage, everyone was getting ready, putting on costumes, hair
and makeup, going over last minute changes and building excitement for the performance. It was fun to watch the frantic scrambling
around by cast and crew, making sure everyone was on the same page and ready to go for the
show. I did my best to stay out of the way, but
in the little bits and pieces of conversations I had while everyone was setting up, I discovered
lots of the folks involved were HUGE Harry Potter fans, and they were thrilled to express
their love for the franchise in this creative way. Pretty soon I slipped out to find my seat,
the lights went down, and the show started. The best way to describe what I watched is,
well, it’s like a group of fans who all have a background in theater came together
to perform something that bears great resemblance to the plot I dreamed up. Without the glitz and gloss of fancy sets
and stage effects, the show can only survive on the basis of the writing and performances.
It was quite a fun experience to see just how much they did with a limited set of resources. There was mystery, intrigue, drama - there
were even a few action scenes peppered throughout. And the audience was into it. A woman sitting
near me audibly gasped when Harry and Hemione’s storyline hit its first major turn. It reminded
me again just how much Harry Potter fans care about these characters, even when viewing
them in this unofficial capacity. The more I watched, the more it dawned on
me that this wasn’t just a little dinky or experimental one act. This was a full stage
show that had been crafted, rehearsed and produced with great care, and I sat there
in a state of bewilderment that a couple videos I had made in a few nights at my apartment
in Arkansas had somehow reached so far across the world wide web that professional performers
in Hollywood were inspired to actually bring it to life. And, I was once again reminded that, man - the
internet is weird. So, for those of you who are hoping that one
day I'll drop a massive, sprawling Harry Potter fanfic into the wild - I just don’t have
it in me. But don’t be too disappointed! Do what Kena
and company did. If there’s a story you want to see, don’t wait around for someone
else to make it. Pick up the tools you have, and make it yourself. And, whatever you end up making, you'll want
other people to see it, right? Which means, Thanks to the cast and crew of Nineteen Years
Later. Break a leg, guys! Austin (in a car, reading Pottermore on his
phone): "Join your Hogwarts House..."
What is this? "Forest or River? That's the first question?! Kena: Yeah! Pick one. Austin: "Which would you rather be: Envied,
Imitated, Trusted, Praised, Feared?" Oh, here's a good one! This is my favorite
one of the entire thing! "Left, or Right?" *laughter* Austin: Ugh. I knew this would happen. I KNEW
this would be it. "Congratulations on being sorted... to Gryffindor." Kena: Yeah! *laughter* Connor: Ugh. Austin: What's he? Oh! He's a Slytherin! *laughs* Kena: He's so sulky! *laughs* 