GamePad Digital, or GPD. You might already know what they do but if
not here is a quick summary. When you think "Laptop" a very solid image
comes to mind. The format of laptops has been pretty stable
and while technological advances have brought progress
in either cost, power, weight and thickness most of the big computer brands have to compete
with either gradual improvements or experimenting with some occasionally questionable
gimmicks. Chinese newcomer GPD figured that rather than
try to compete in the already crowded market they could specialize in what was a relative
ignore niche: Tiny, tiny Laptops. GPD got its name from doing gaming handhelds,
first running Android and then Windows, of which I have done a fair bit of content and
eventually decided to gather the lessons learned from handhelds to do an entire line of Pocket Laptops, and if you
are a little bit older this might sound a bit familiar. In what now feels like prehistory the original
line of Intel Atoms allowed for the netbooks. Cheap tiny laptops with or 2 GB of RAM that
would barely run Windows 7 starter edition. The idea was to make super-portable devices
meant for light tasks and they were not very good. I should know, this netbook was my personal
laptop when I was starting university almost 8 years ago. Now that initiative was killed because not
long after smartphones became a thing and they were much more portable and better at
those tasks. Now Phones are great but certain tasks are
better suited for a keyboard like writing any long document or of course gaming and
advancements on the new line of Intel Atoms, Intel m3, m5 and Intel Pentium meant the moment
was ripe for some company to bring netbooks back in spirit. I am in part an almost ideal user for this
sort of device. I have carried my original intel Atom-powered
GPD Pocket in pretty much every conference and trip that I do. I have written entire video scripts on this,
I have done a lot of research and a lot of channel managements since the YouTube studio
app in Android is very insufficient. And you might ask, isn't a regular-sized laptop
better for that. Yes, yes it is, but if you had to walk 3 days
of Vidcon with a full laptop in your bag versus a GPD Pocket you might arrive at the same
conclusion as I did. Now, there have been 3 models of the GPD Pocket. The Pocket 1, The Pocket 2, and the GPD 2 Max... a larger model that I hope
to review someday in the future. All past videos I have done on the devices
I own are in the cards in the corner or on links in the description. Which takes us to today. GPD has released a refresh of their Pocket
2 and this one... is actually downgrade from the older Pocket 2 model. Yes, this is a weaker PC. And that actually makes sense! I already did a video on the original Pocket
2, on which I praised its improved performance and its keyboard. The Pocket 1's keyboard is a bit cramped while
the Pocket 2 sacrifices mouse usability to maximize keyboard surface which actually makes
this form factor work much better. Now, problem GPD products tend to run is price. In general, they tend to be a bit premium
on their original launch campaigns and some of their stuff gets pricier after release. Alex: And that leads to this, the new version
of the GPD Pocket 2. Now, this is my mate, Nate. He's a Spanish Techtuber extraodinaire who's
actually I've asked to give me a second opinion because I know a lot of you guys have opinions
regarding miniature computers and he has never seen one of these before. So, I asked him to evaluate both usage, built
quality, keyboard, etc. and give me his opinions and what have you thought so far? Well, my attention is that the chasis is very
similar to the macbook Air, actually I have my macbook Air over here and
if you compare those, you can see that obviously the design was inspired by this laptop. And that's not something bad, actually is
very good. Alex: It's actually really good. Nate: Yeah. Alex: It's not a cheap copy, it's a really
good material. Nate: Yeah. Also, the chasis is very similar in the stiffness
and also the hinge is very, very strong. Alex: Yes, very difficult to open. Nate: Compared to the MacBook Air, you can
open it with one hand but that's just a detail- small detail, but the construction is very
nice. It's very strong and premium. Alex: It has more ports than the MacBook. Nate: But you can use this without a dongle,
that's something good about this laptop. The thing I can't figure out is how to write
here because I really miss the keys everytime. Alex: Yeah, it's just, it's a matter of habit. Not everyone is going to be willing about
using such a small keyboard. It is interesting however that- How expensive
is that MacBook again? Nate: $/€ 1000 Alex: That's in Euros while this device has
been dropped now to between €350 and €400, and that is because
they did a significant cut in specs, now instead of using an Intel M3 they're using
an Intel celeron which is a Dual Core, 1.5 ghz, non-hyperthreaded CPU, which is very
basic and is very centered towards common office tasks rather than gaming, and we'll
get to the gaming part later, don't worry about that. Nate: So, the new model is a downgrade. Alex: Exactly. At some point, they figured that most people
were using the previous model for general tasks,
and that there was no point in preserving the higher specs and will use something that
will heat up less, have better battery life and will be actually cheaper. And the result is why I'm calling the GPD
Pocket 2 lite. GPD is not calling it that way, they're just
calling it the new GPD Pocket 2 and honestly I kinda prefer it over the old GPD Pocket
2. It always comes with 8 gb of RAM, which is
fantastic, that was a huge problem with the other one and it works for most tasks that
you're going to do with something like this. Like, what I was mentioning before is that
I take this usually when I go to conferences and I do a lot of my scriptwriting, a lot
of my management of my editor, and a lot of like creating thumbnails for videos or doing
small adjustments, and that led to a curiosity on the video in your channel that we were
working together. Nate: Yeah, we made the thumbnail for this
video actually- well for my video Alex: Yeah, you were curious about how- If
we could create an entire thumbnail for your video in this device, so we connected it to an external monitor
which was running in an obscene 2K resolution that I thought it would not work here and
you got to it and what was the result? Nate: Yeah because- well, the result was very
good, I mean, you can do a thumbnail in this computer but basically I always dreamt of a- some kind of computer/laptop/smartphone
whatever that you can bring with you, all the day and then you get home, you plug it
to your monitor, your keyboard, your peripherals and you just use it as your every day computer. Alex: General computer Nate: And I was trying to figure out that
a device like this was able to do that. Alex: Yeah, it would be very interesting-
an experienced company like GPD would actually try to do a mobile device, and also be a laptop,
like that would be something I'd be definitely into because they have a very good track record
with their small devices so far. The latest ones have been superb so that would
be a pretty interesting idea. Nate: Also, one thing I like to mention is
that, the first time you handed it to me, I didn't see, of course, the touchpad but,
the first thing I thought is... well, there is no touchpad, the screen must be a touchscreen
so I tried to touch it and it worked, and I think it's ok to use this laptop in a touch
way, you know what I mean? Because, you actually have like iPads nowadays,
that's how people use iPads and other tablets without a keyboard because you can actually
touch it and... Alex: That might be why the hinge is so strong,
because it needs to resist the pressure of clicking it continuously, yeah. Nate: That makes sense. Alex: That makes sense... um but yeah, we
sort of prooved that as a general work office device, this works actually excellently. Nate: Yeah, this can be your only computer Alex: It can be your only computer. So, the real question there is, what sort
of gaming can you do with it? And there, I got a little bit creative. Gaming on this device is going to be a bit
of a challenge for several reasons. The dual-core Celeron is combined with a comparatively
better Intel HD Graphics 615. However, a locked Bios and no turbo boosting
means that we have no way to alter the TDP so we are going to run into thermal limits
on the GPU and a very significant bottleneck on the CPU for most games Now that does not mean that it is not possible,
it just means that since there is very little that can be tweaked to deal with a CPU bottleneck
we have to carefully pick games that can at least get 30 fps from the CPU. Lighter indie hits like this year's Blasphemous
work just fine, with only occasional CPU usage spikes. And I played a significant amount of cuphead
on a machine that was way weaker than this one and that was at 720p at full 1080 or 1200p
for the aspect ratio of this screen the game works with just occasional slowdowns. Both of those will play the best if you connect
a Gamepad, but since that is another thing to carry around
I was looking for something that could be played just with a keybord and a mouse and something like Age of empires 2 HD works just just great. Both here and in the original GPD Pocket 1 But none of those are big surprises so let's
turn on the heat. Good classics like Skyrim are old enough at
this point that wihout modification the CPU can manage a pretty playable framerate with
the GPU at 720 having a fair enough space for lowest settings. I played a significant ammount of skyrim on
my intel atom gpd win 1 so this is not much of a surprise. Rocket League is a great example, on lower
settings the game is very GPU light so I have zero doubts the IntelHD could do it, but online
play tends to particularly cause problems on these sort of low-end CPUs. To my surprise,
it managed to keep it together and playable during an entire match. Due to the TDP limits, the GPU is rarely able
to use its full power so I stuck to the lowest settings but this was still a rather enjoyable
result. Now another surprise was the original Tomb
Raider reboot from 2013. I have been planning to incorporate more of
this game on my test on ultra-limited systems due to is surprisingly low CPU usage and the
fact that I have made a video with some textures tweaks
to improve GPU performance. On those settings, this device has zero issues
on 1280×800 on the benchmarks which are not amazingly representative but an encouraging
result while still being limited on the CPU. Actual combat drops significantly lower but
it still much better than I expected except for any explosions that involve physics and
overload the poor CPU and yet this still somewhat serviceable for an action game. What if we try something that is less reliant
on quick reactions, such as an action game like Xcom 2. Now XCOM 2 on regular low settings is indeed
too much for this GPU so I pretty much disabled dynamic lightning
and reduced resolution to 960x600 using tweaks from my very old video on that game. The result is something that kinda works and
is now once again limited by the CPU. Action scenes are a bit too much for it but
since this is a turn-based game where it actually accounts you can get usable performance. Now this is not a gake recommendation but as an experiment, it is interesting to see what this device can do. Ok, but what are you actually want to play
something and not just do experiments. Here are a couple of better examples: I already did a video on pubg lite, a super
light re-port of pubg mobile that works on really absurd low specs. I did the original video while explaining
how to tweak internal resolution to dramatically low levels to make it work on the first generation
Pocket 1 so it stands to assume that this ligther version of the Pocket 2 would be more
than capable to do this on 1920x1200 resolution with a 70% resolution scale and lowest settings. Given previous results of this CPU that is
a great surprise. Just, keep in mind that this game is only
available in certain countries, the list keeps growing but it is still limited. In summary, while not a powerful PC by any
means I do think GPD made a solid step in the right direction by aiming for a cheaper
device that still maintains the sexy aesthetics, ultra-portable factor, great keyboard and
a CPU that is not as strong as the m3 of the old model, not even close, but still pretty
decent for a basic laptop and will likely become my travel PC for most conferences next
year and that is all I wanted. Thank you to GPD for providing the sample,
Wargaming for the sponsor and you for watching. 