- You know what I feel pretty good today. So good in fact that I think I'm going to
read some YouTube comments, but which one? So many choices. All right. I'm just going to click somewhere on my screen and read the
first comment that I see. (suspenseful music) Oh shit. I can't afford to get sued again. It would be the third time this week. Relax Drew, if you just give into their
demands, they'll back off. All right, fine. Just give me a second to figure this out. Now tell your lawyer to get off my ass. Anyway. Hey guys. Welcome back to my YouTube channel. My neighbor's kids have
been screaming all day and I don't know why. Let's hope that continues. So today I'm going to be
talking about an insane and hilarious E.T. ripoff that was made in the eighties by McDonald's. It's a movie called "Mac and Me". So a couple of things before we start one, I got the idea to do
this from the H3 Podcast. They recently did a
segment where they talked about a bunch of movies that
had 0% on rotten tomatoes. And this was one of them. And I had remembered seeing this scene. (screaming) So many times I've seen that
so many times in my life and I never really knew what it was from until I put the pieces together
when watching that segment of the podcast. So I looked it up. I watched the entire movie twice because oh my God, it's incredible. Also real quick. One more thing. I'm excited to announce, we do have a bunch more tour
dates officially listed now, in addition to the seven
that we announced last week those tickets are available now. So click the link in the description. If you're interested in buying those if you see your city or a city
near you, and that is that thank you so much for everyone
who's bought tickets so far. I can't wait for the shows and
I can't wait for this video. So I'm going to start it now. How this movie got made is
actually pretty interesting basically in the eighties, two of the biggest children's entities were E.T. and Ronald McDonald. So naturally some genius
came along and said, Hey what if we combined those two things and made an uglier worse version of E.T. that doubles as
constant product placement for both McDonald's and Coca Cola. So rather than a bad movie,
that's occasionally interrupted by some product placement "Mac and Me" is an hour and a half long commercial occasionally interrupted by a movie. Sometimes you get so swept up in the McDonald's logos and
Coke cans that you forget there's also a bizarre
alien kid's movie going on in the background. So the movie opens up pretty much where you would expect it to in space and right away our eyeballs are introduced to this hideous alien family. One of the bigger aliens,
just kind of jams a straw into the ground and then
starts drinking the ground. So we're off to a good start, but then, Oh shit, look guys, NASA's here. And they brought, like a
lunar Lander or something. So then they kind of like look at it and they're like, what's that? And they're kind of moving all weird. Because you know, they're aliens. So I guess aliens move weird. I don't know. But then the Mars rover
uses its little vacuum arm to suck up one of the aliens. Oh no. And then the rest of the
aliens get sucked up. Oh no. So then it takes off and flies into space as all the names of the people
who are probably ashamed to have been in this
movie show up on screen. So now we're back at NASA and all the scientists are observing some of the like rock samples
that they collected. But of course the aliens
break out of the thing. And then this scene is
legitimately terrifying. I'm not going to lie because these things are creepy as fuck. For some reason, the scientists
just kind of let them go. But then chase them, they
already had them contained inside their building, but
they were like, no, no, no. Let's let them leave. And then chase them. It's kind of a weird plan. I don't understand. So right away the aliens get separated. There's the three bigger ones. And then the tiny little one
who ends up all on his own he starts running, which looks hilarious. Because he's just kind of
flopping his little feet on the ground. Then he gets shocked by
this fence and you start to get an idea of how visually
awful this movie's going to be. (movie sounds) Stop the car. I don't know about all that. So now we're introduced to the real stars of the movie, Eric, his
brother and his mom. - It's probably an ADUI. - What? - An alien driving under the influence. - Yeah, his brother's pretty funny. (soft music) This music would suggest that something cute is
happening on screen. But I got to say this slimy little alien that looks like a ball
sack with arms and legs. Not really that cute. The good news is Mac the
alien, that's his name is safe for now. He escaped the government by hiding in the back seat of their car. The bad news is they are in the middle of driving
from Chicago to California. So he's now very separated
from the rest of his family who's let's be honest,
being a little dramatic. - Nice stuff you're throwing around there. - Relaxed lady. It's just our furniture pad. - And then to some of the next
few minutes you got Gatorade you got Skittles, you got Dos
Equis and then you've got Mac. Who's always making the
same dumb face somehow. No one's noticed the slimy
little alien pitter-pattering around their house and they
still don't for a while but they do notice that
weird things are happening. Eric takes a battery out
of his remote control car and it still works for some reason. And even though his TV's
not even plugged in, it still turns on for some reason, weird stuff's happened around these parts. It must be a California thing. And then Eric hears the shower running, but he goes in and no one's there, but there's tiny little footprints leading their way outside. Who could it be? At one point it's pitch
black, outside little guy's got his full naked body pressed
up against a sliding glass door and no one notices. What are these guys idiots. But anyway, after an entire
day of weird stuff happening and no one knowing why Eric has probably the best line in the whole movie. - I was thinking maybe it
wasn't such a bad thing. Anyway, all I did was take
a shower and drink a soda. - That's so sweet. That's such a nice way to look at it. I mean, yeah, like I
guess it's technically bad that someone broke into our house but all they did was blow
his nose and lick our garlic. - Maybe it was one of the
neighborhood kids or something. I'm sure there's a rational explanation. - I don't know how rational that is for a neighborhood kid to take a shower and steal your soda that happened in the car in a different state. But yeah, I guess it was just
one of the neighborhood kids. (whistling) And then the whistling,
they do this several times throughout the movie, they
did it in the beginning even though they were like 20 feet apart they whistled into the sky
and like do this thing. I guess that's like their homing signal. Like that's how they know
where each other are. It's really cute. I think. But I don't know if it's
necessary to have like a three minute long scene where
that's all that's happening. So while they were all sleeping Lo Mac breaks in again and
causes more random chaos. Because that's the whole movie
so far, is him causing chaos and them not knowing
the source of the chaos. But since Eric was the
first one to discover it his brother and his mom
assumed that he did this that he spent all night
like bringing trees into that house and
drilling a hole in the wall. They just assume that it was their son. So Eric is upset at this
point reasonably so. I mean, his family obviously
thinks very little of him. If they assume that he was
the source of this mess. So he does what any sad person would do. He starts crying. He rolls his way out of the house. He goes on a hill and
then falls down the hill. (screaming) You know, come to think of it. Maybe the family with the
son who's in a wheelchair shouldn't have moved into
a house on top of a cliff. It seems like an accident
waiting to happen. So the action in this
movie is a lot of fun, but the dialogue is even worse. I don't know why anyone says
the lines the way that they do. - What is he? Some sort of ghost? - I'm going to catch him. - Give me a call. - It's McDonald's huh? - Yeah. - Why don't you stop by for a big Mac? - Hmm. That does sound pretty good. Right guys. - You know what I feel like? - A big mac? - Guys you should go. You got to go get that. - I'm psychic. - So I think at this
point, Eric is pretty much as fed up as we are about
the fact that we haven't, they haven't been
introduced to the alien yet. The main characters have not
formally been introduced yet. And we're 40 minutes into the movie. We're halfway through the movie and all they've done is Dick around. So being the genius that he is he sets these little booby
traps around the house. And by that I mean he puts cups of
Coke throughout the house. And lo and behold it works. They've tried so hard to catch
this guy up until this point. And then all they had to do
was put Coke next to a bell. And he's just digging that shit. - Just get this vacuum
cleaner on your back. We're going to suck them up. - The full proof plan continues. It's not just the Coke cans. They're also going to strap a human girl to the back of a vacuum
cleaner, which will end well. Right. This movie's insane. I love it so much. - We heart her bad, didn't we? - It looks tired. - Nothing an ice cold soda won't fix. - This must be like what they
drink on their own planet. - Oh, so that must have
been what he was drinking in the beginning. Remember that when he put the straw in the ground and started slurping. - This must be like what they
drink on their own planet. - I guess their entire planet
is Coca Cola surrounded by a thin layer of dirt. - That's fine. - What are we going to do? - We're going to tell her. - So they try to explain
what happened to their mom but she doesn't believe them. - You sucked this living
thing into a vacuum cleaner. - Yeah. - We get it, they're aliens. You don't have to do
this every 20 minutes. I actually started to love
this movie the more I watch it. Because there's no way they didn't realize how hilarious like this would look. Like when he somehow
gets stuck in this tree. (dogs barking) Like the comedic genius. You would have to be to put
that song in at that moment. It's perfect. It's amazing. - He doesn't look so good. - I mean, you could pretty much say that about every scene he's in. - He doesn't look so good. He doesn't look so good. He doesn't look so-- - Okay. And please feel free
to correct me if I'm wrong. But I think the kid and the alien actually
fall in love at one point. Because like, what is this? (soft music) - What is he doing in there? - Okay so they're getting ready
to go to some birthday party and they don't want to
leave Mac alone at home. Because like the government's there now. I don't know. So thinking on the fly, Eric puts him inside this like four
foot tall bear costume that he just has. He just has that costume. And he puts Mac inside of it. - Kind of old for a Teddy isn't he? - Oh. And also like he's moving around and stuff and making noises which is something that
a Teddy bear doesn't do. You're probably thinking who
in their right mind would think that this is just a very tall toy and wouldn't assume
something fishy is going on. Right? I mean it's 1988 after all. Technology isn't that advanced yet. But Eric has the perfect answer. - Does your bear move? - Oh yeah. He's one of those new computerized kind. - But I thought you said
you had him a long time. - I have. He just got new micro chips. - Oh yeah. Duh microchips. I don't know why. I didn't think about that. Then we of course go to
McDonald's where it looks like the eighties is happening. (upbeat music) Wait, is everything happening at this? McDonald's I mean, Ronald
McDonald himself is here. And at one point literally the
entire restaurant breaks out into a choreographed dance routine. Even the local football
team gets in on it. Not to be one up to of
course, little Mac gets on the counter and starts dancing too, because what the fuck even is this movie? - Does your bear move? - Oh, the government's here. And they know exactly
who's under that suit. So then the McDonald's
dance off ends and all 200 people that were inside the
store shimmy their way out leading seamlessly into this Epic six-minute
wheelchair chasing. Cars are crashing into each other. Sears is being destroyed. It's intense to say the least. So then they lose the FBI agents. Finally they've managed to escape but they need to find somewhere to hide. So they drive to some fucking cave which they find because
Mac starts whistling into the sky again for the
fourth time in this movie. Oh, but look, it's a Mac
family reunion, except hold on. I think all the other Macs
are dead or just relaxing. I don't know. This is a pivotal moment in the movie. Mac has finally been reunited
with his fellow aliens. His family, but it looks like they need some kind of boost. I don't know. Maybe like a caffeine
boost, a little sugar rush. What could they possibly... They all drink Coke and come back to life. - Guys, give me another drink. - Why do they move like that? That was someone's choice
to make them move like that. Why was that the choice? Okay. So at this point everything seemingly has
been resolved, right? They found his family. They've been reunited. They escaped the FBI. The movie should be over now but there's still 18 minutes left. So I guess to force conflict they're all just like yelling
at each other in the car. - Well do something. - What? - I'm driving I don't know. - You can't do this, we are in a vehicle. But I guess at this point,
the writers were like, you know what? We're this far in. Why stop now? We got fit more weird ass
scenes into this movie. And I've got the perfect idea. They're going to stop at a gas station. Another car is going to pull up. She's going to ask her friend
to get a Coke, obviously. And then she's going to
notice the two aliens and there's going to
be some sexual tension. And this is going to last
for a few seconds too long. And then she's going to drink her soda which for some reason
isn't Coke, but the thirsty thirsty aliens don't care
because they still want it. So they break the window. And how high do you have to be? To write this movie? What the fuck. Oh look now the aliens are inside because I guess they didn't
want to stay in the car. This'll end well. - Put that down right now. - Oh, nevermind. The police are here. - Put it down. - What down. He's not holding anything. Anyway, now there's like 30 police or hold on. Wait, is this the police? - This is the police. - Oh, okay. Yeah it is. All right. Well now they're all
shooting guns at each other which I got to be honest
is a little predictable. Like I think we all
thought while watching the beginning of this movie,
that it was obvious that this would end with a high
stakes parking lot shootout. So I'm a little disappointed by that. It just comes off as lazy writing. Anyway, they're all
shooting guns at each other, but I mean it's not like the whole store is going to explode or anything. (explosion) - Wait what? He died because he was near the explosion. He wasn't even that close. Not to worry though,
guys, the aliens are here. Maybe they can just wave their
hands around for two minutes and then we'll come back to life. - He's okay. - So I guess that was the final
resolution we were waiting on was that. And then now there's this scene,
which seems pretty normal. So far, nothing outlandish
or hilarious here just... Looks like the aliens
are dressed for church. If you're wondering
what's happening right now why they're dressed up? Why they're holding their
arms up in a courthouse. It's because they are being sworn in as United States citizens. - You are now citizens of
the United States of America. (applauding) - Wait what they just kissed on the lips. Why are they all kissing? What. We didn't know they're driving. When did they learn how to drive a car? We'll be back. I think that's supposed to be his gum. I think he just, he blew a
bubble so big that it's spelled out the words we'll be back
hinting at a sequel right. There were no sequels and
Ronald McDonald as himself of course, but it would be
pretty funny if it was like and Ronald McDonald as Eric and who could forget vital
contributions from the likes of Skeet Simpson and Buzz
Knudson, Buzz Knudson. Those are not real names. What I think happened is that those people who actually
worked on this movie when it came time to like do
the credits they were like and what do you want to be credited as they just made up names? Because they did not want
to be associated with this. What's my name, Skeet Simpson. And I of course, I'm Buck Flower. You know as much criticism
as this movie has gotten over the years I think it's
actually aged kind of well, like seeing it now for the first time, it does have a bit of a charm to it. Don't get me wrong. It's very weird and objectively bad but there's something endearing about it. As ugly as the puppets
are, you do get the sense that all of the characters
actually care about each other. And that's more than you can say about a lot of other movies, but yeah I guess it rings a little hollow when all of those somewhat likable
characters starts shilling out Coca Cola, every 14 seconds. "Mac and Me" great movie. Highly recommend it. It's free on YouTube. You can just search it and
watch the whole thing for free. That's how I watch it. Final verdict. I give "Mac and Me" five
stars out of a hundred stars. I think that's going to
do it for today's video. I'd stay and chat a little bit longer but Amanda and I are leaving to Ireland tomorrow and
I have not yet packed. So I got to go do that before she yells at me again, once again, more
tour dates are available now. Click the link in the
description to see all of those dates and get your tickets. Holy shit. We did not expect to sell
out of most of the tickets. So far last week, a couple
of the venues Naperville we completely sold out to support
seriously means the world. We are so excited to do these. And we're so happy that you guys also seem
excited to see the shows but that also means that
if you're interested in one of these new shows
that I don't know how long they will last. So you'd probably don't
want to wait too long through your tickets. If that's something you want to do. So we are two different people toward.com. Thank you so much. I got new stickers up in my merchant sites drew good chat.com but I should probably
stop plugging things. Because like I said, I had to pack and I also did that whole bit about "Mac and Me" with
the product placement. I'm kind of doing the
same thing in my video. So I probably should just get out of here and not do that anymore. So I think I'll probably just go. 