“Oh, look at that, an alert. I’m probably trending already.” The running joke about
Brooklyn Nine-Nine’s Captain Holt is that he’s a robot. “Meep, morp, zeep. Robot captain engaged.” “Is that what you think?” And the humor of
Andre Braugher’s comic performance comes from the way he holds back. “I am in incredible pain.” He’s not comfortable
pouring out his emotions, or bearing his soul on social media. “What’s your handle? I’ll be your first follower.” “It’s @5261796d6e620486f6c74.” But over time it’s clear that
Raymond Holt’s poised discipline doesn’t come from
being a callous machine -- but from a heart that’s exceptionally
sensitive, deep and refined. You could argue Holt is the
most feeling character on the show. “What? My account
has been deactivated?” “Twitter thinks you’re a bot!” “Why? I’m a human. I’m a human male!” Today’s American culture
takes it for granted that it’s good to express
and bad to repress ourselves. Yet what makes Holt so impactful
in the lives of the people around him has more to do with
how he models restraint. “I’m sorry you had to witness
such a vicious fight.” “Oh, was that a fight?” “Are you kidding? He said, ‘You’ll have to excuse me,’
instead of ‘Please excuse me.’ May as well have spit in my face.” He thinks about how
to love intelligently. Holt is a great leader
(and father figure) because he understands
how to translate affection into action that helps his team do
and be their best. “You ARE a professional dancer,
because I'm paying Dancy Reagan to perform two shows
at our at-risk youth program.” “You just made me
the happiest, prettiest, most talented girl in the world.” So instead of rushing
to perform our emotions or letting them overwhelm our
rational minds, we might do better to follow Captain Holt’s example
and practice analytical love. “The statistical analysis!” [Crying] “It’s so beautiful.” and enter the code “thetake” to get
an extra month of Nord VPN for free. There’s a lot of
emphasis in our culture on airing our inner
passions and opinions. “I just have a lot of feelings.” But making a public song
and dance about your feelings doesn’t change the situation
they arose from, nor does empathy alone
actually help anyone. Captain Holt proves that
we shouldn’t be so quick to equate real feeling with the conventional means
of giving voice to it. Sometimes the more one feels,
the more subtly one shows it. “Fine. I’ll say I’m sorry.” “No, be sincere. Like this. I’m sorry.” “I’m sorry.” “I’m sorry.” “Good. That’s the one.” Holt filters his love through
an incredibly sharp, systematic mind. “Are you familiar with
the story of ‘Moneyball’? A man uses statistics and logic
to win several baseball games. It’s my favorite film.” To begin with, he sees
each person on his team clearly and accepts how they are. He approaches mentoring them
with the dry uncluttered thought you might bring to a math problem. “You have a pathological
need to be liked.” “You were right. Terry loves to be loved!” The result is a strikingly different technique
for how to motivate each employee, based on diagnosing
their strengths, weaknesses, “Ah!” needs, and what they respond to. “I know you may not see yourself
as my mentor but --” “Of course I do. I’ve been
mentoring you all this time.” “What!” He coaches Amy with the
intense attention to detail, structure and hyper-organization
that drives her. “It was real. There was a BINDER.” He helps Rosa learn
to be more vulnerable by working on this himself with her. “We’re both great at this.” Holt demonstrates that
it’s far more effective to adjust one’s leadership style
to fit people as they are, instead of fighting
against their nature. When he asks Boyle to play squash, Boyle worries about
revealing his competitive side, but of course Holt asked him
because he was aware Boyle would act like
a competitive nutcase. “Squash’s unhinged lunatic. I need him on my team.” Thanks to the extensive
rational thought he applies to everything, Holt is always a step ahead. “Be warned. I started planning
next year's heist just this minute.” “Good. Then you’re only
three months behind.” And his reliance on analysis means
he’s completely aware of what he’s doing and able to pass on
these techniques with rare clarity. He can even instruct Amy
on how to manage another Amy. “You see, managing Amy
is not a chore. It’s a pleasure
because an Amy is a tool.” “I’m a tool?” “Yes, you’re a massive tool. You’re useful and valuable.” To teach someone effectively, you have to figure out
how to speak their language. “We should take the chopper.” [Gasps] “You said chopper.” “Death Blade, Sidewinder,
it’s go time!” He proves the truism that
a great teacher learns from his students. He lets Boyle instruct him
in yoga and food appreciation. “Now describe what you taste.” “Cheese.” He gets an introduction
to mainstream pop culture from Gina. “Miranda could’ve had Blair Underwood
but she settled for Steve?” “Oh, but you do get it, sir.” He absorbs the best aspects
of each pupil’s personality -- because this is just
a smart thing to do. Plus, flipping the script
and letting the trainee take the lead is yet another sneaky way
to teach them -- as they get to practice confidence
and grow into leaders themselves. “Well, well, well. It appears
the student has become the teacher.” Part of what makes
Holt’s intelligence and attitude so impressive (not to mention funny) is
that he’s a sponge soaking up foreign information. [Sighs] “I can be such a Samantha.” He listens -- and acknowledges
when he’s wrong. “I should’ve been open to criticism, as this department should be
open to criticism.” Because this is rational behavior, and an important part
of continuing to improve oneself. When Terry voices his resolve to file the complaint
against the bigoted police officer, Holt rethinks his long-standing views
on a world that’s changing. “As a black gay man, I never had a superior
who was on my side, so the advice I offered you, that came from a different place
at a different time.” So in this character we see the virtues
of letting your reason moderate or overrule instinctive
emotional reactions to challenges. “If Rosa were to jump off a cliff,
she would have done her due diligence regarding the height of the cliff,
the depth of the water, and the angle of entry. So, yes. If you see Rosa jump off a cliff,
by all means, jump off a cliff.” The fruits of Holt’s analytical love
are nowhere more apparent than in the show’s protagonist,
Jake Peralta. At the start of the series,
Jake is kind of a jerk “I appreciate the offer,
but I work best alone.” He has the seed of
the person that we all love. But he’s been brainwashed
by classic cop shows and movies into acting like
an obnoxious macho loner. “You want to be the best. We all do. You just don’t have to be
such a butthead about it.” Then, in walks Captain Holt. He’s set up in the first season
as Jake’s antagonist, getting in the way of
Jake’s mojo and his fun. “Here are three cases
with sloppy paperwork. Here are two pictures. One is your locker. The other is a garbage dump
in the Philippines.” “That one's the dump?” “They're BOTH your locker." Yet it becomes apparent that
the new commanding officer is giving Jake a hard time
not to hurt the kid, but to help him. “I put away bad guys. That’s what matters.” “Well, so does doing your paperwork,
showing up on time, wearing proper footwear.” He sees Jake’s potential
as well as what’s holding him back, and synthesizes this raw material into
a sophisticated vision for guiding him to become a remarkably better
detective and human being. “While you were out being tardy, I was hard at work
devising a special punishment. I’ve crafted an intricate, personal
high-five with everyone in this office except you.” “What?” He constructs complex lessons
tailored around Jake’s weaknesses -- like making his pupil respect
that he’s part of a team through imposing a dress code. “Captain, I just figured it out. We’re a team, and a tie is part of
that team’s uniform, right?” And it’s not an overstatement
to say the enlightened, well-adjusted, happy family man of later seasons
wouldn’t exist without Holt. The Holt-Jake relationship also
illustrates what tough love looks like. “When you show me that you can do your job --
every part of your job -- perfectly then I’ll back off.” This comes through
in the second episode when Holt pressures Jake not to let
a higher-up’s spoiled kid off the hook. “I feel bad for this kid. I mean, what kind of father
cares so little for his son that he lets him get away
with everything?” And the implication is that
Holt is the father who does care enough to challenge Jake for his own good. Tough love famously isn’t easy to dole out,
because it doesn’t feel that good. It’s painful to make someone you love
think you’re being hard on them. But Holt’s tough love is calculated,
smart, and effective. It’s part of a bigger plan, which will
be revealed to the mentee in due time. “This is day 1,282 of a nine-year
mentorship I have mapped out to you. Under ordinary circumstances I wouldn't
reveal this to you until day 3,300.” All of this demonstrates that,
to actually help people you care about, you need unsentimental love
and a clear, rational mind. “I followed you because you're great,
and you make everything you touch better.” “No, no. I said milli-METER.” [Laughter] Raymond is a model of grace,
poise, and sophistication. “Not sure Barbra Streisand
qualifies as a rock musician, sir.” “She sings in English. That’s rock music.” The epitome of correctness,
he's the kind of person who considers it a grave error
to misplace a semicolon, “You think that semicolon was a mistake? No, it was a juicy piece of bait.” split an infinitive, “Do you want to hear
the funniest thing ever? I also split an infinitive,
and she didn't notice.” or dangle a preposition. “A concept you should
become familiar with.” “A dangling preposition?” “I’m setting an example.” His tell in poker is using contractions… [Slow motion] “Shouldn’t’ve.” “I've never heard you use
a double contraction before." “And you never will again. I was at rock bottom.” His tastes appear to suggest
a preference for lack of flavor. “If it were feasible,
my diet would consist entirely of flavorless beige smoothies containing all the nutrients
required by the human animal.” But while his ascetic approach
to food is the opposite of Jake’s fun-filled sugar frenzy, eschewing easy, short-lived indulgences is
good practice in delaying satisfaction, and frees up his mind and attention
for finer pleasures. “In the hands of an expert
like Joram Leifgrum, the passion is breathtaking.” As a model of excellence,
Holt leads by example -- inspiring others to rise to his level. “It should take 70 seconds for you
to fully gauge someone’s character.” His philosophy is that we owe it
to ourselves to be our best selves -- just as we owe it to the people we love
to help them be their best. “Is that how you're planning on sitting? Leaning back like a matinee goer?” The show offers
a number of explanations for how this character became
the refined, buttoned-up robot. “Is this little Raymond’s macaroni art?” “No, that's a macaroni infographic he made about educational spending
during the Johnson administration.” [Gasps] His mother’s equally
controlled demeanor suggests he learned to
hold back from childhood. “That was humor, Mother.” “I know, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. I love laughing and laughter.” “Oh.” “Yes, we all do, but enough chitchat.” Meanwhile, he’s turned off
by his sister’s opposite approach of selfishly unloading
her messy emotions onto others. “I mean, can you EVEN, Raymond? “I cannot... even.” So he appears to have internalized
this model for keeping it all in, and reacted against
the cautionary tale of letting it all out. As a professional,
Holt has been formed by a career as a gay black man
in the police force. Holt felt that he had to be perfect to avoid any weaknesses
that could be used against him. “Because he's gay, Raymond has been
put through hell by his colleagues, many of whom, quite frankly,
look exactly like you.” To this day, part of what
makes Holt appear like a robot is his hyper-perfectionism. “Nice to meet ya.” “And John Urblan has just been fired.” “What?” “I have?” “Meet ‘ya’? You just abbreviated
a one-syllable word. Now clean out your ‘des.’ I removed the K so you'd understand
how absurd ‘ya’ sound.” So the deepest explanation
for Holt’s persona is that it’s been a conscious,
long-term process of self-control. He appears like this cool robot
because he has so much feeling that he’s trained himself
over the years to reign in. “I've never been more shocked.” One reason Holt pushes Jake so hard
seems to be that, once upon a time, Holt was a lot like Peralta. Flashbacks of him pursuing
a legendary criminal tell us he used to be a brash young detective. “While you’re in there? I’m going to go for a swim.” “Wow, I think I would have
got along with young Ray Holt. “Yes, that’s why I decided
to change everything about my life.” We see a powerful wildness in him. Underneath the rigid self-management,
there’s a volcano ready to blow. "I know we live in a world where
aaaaaanyything can mean anything, and nobody even cares about ETYMOLO--” “Apparently, that's a trigger for me.” “Yeah.” One of the joys of
watching Holt is trying to decipher the imperceptible shifts
in his behavior to find clues of the vast ocean of feeling
hidden underneath. “Wait, before you say anything,
I wanna guess what happened based on your face. Someone died. No! You won a prize!” Generally his team members
attempt this to no avail. “Guy is impossible to read. Don’t even try.” “That is without question
the funniest story I’ve ever heard.” But it’s satisfying to watch Ray
with his husband Kevin “PDA in the office? My my.” “Couldn't help myself.” as both are such finely calibrated people that they can read
each others’ emotional states in the subtlest of expressions,
that are invisible to anyone else. “He’d never sit in just any section.” “I might.” “You’d sit center left? In timpani alley? I’ll purchase those tickets right away.” “No, don’t!” Brooklyn Nine-Nine's precinct seems like
the most fun place to work ever. That's largely because it’s
like hanging out with a bunch of stand-up comics mixed with lighthearted
throwback-cop-show shenanigans. But the other reason it seems
like a great place to work is because of how much
these detectives love their jobs. Even more than being obsessed with him, Holt’s employees are obsessed
with the Nine-Nine. “NINE NINE!” “YEAH!” We see how passionately they fight
to keep it going every time their precinct is threatened. And this is the mark of a
truly great leader: he doesn’t just inspire faith
in himself, but also in the work. Holt has a firm vision of what police
should be in the community. “He's already released a memo
detailing his ‘vigilant policing’ initiative. It's essentially a return to stop and frisk. Choosing him is a betrayal
of everything I stand for.” And yet again his analytical mind comes
in handy to clearly express that vision, so his team is unified in
their understanding of what they’re doing
and how much it matters. “Look this is a hard fight. But it’s an important one. You got the guy who assaulted her.” This team is full of workaholics
with little separation between their personal and professional lives. “I have not slept in
since I last saw you many hours. Plus, I think I'm hallucinating, because I’m pretty sure I just heard
your biceps mocking me.” Yet they never seem burnt-out
or resentful of the long hours. “Rise and shine, detectives,
rise and shine." "How long were we asleep?" "Just long enough for me
to squeeze in a quick workout. So, like, three hours.” This job is their life. And this is the rare example
where that’s not a bad thing, because the work gives them both
big-picture purpose and day-to-day fun. Holt’s composed presence hides
the fact that he can be a radical. “Listen, Kelly, I’m going to
do that interview, and you can’t stop me,
so go ahead. Cut our budget,
close more of the building, open other fake IA investigations
into my detectives.” He may believe firmly
in the value of police work, but he also believes in reforming
the police force from within, boldly tackling its
inefficiencies and corruption, and making the world-at-large
more inclusive. “Every time someone steps up
and says who they are, the world becomes a better,
more interesting place.” His values translate into
a workplace setting where his employees feel safe
and comfortable. When Holt first takes his post,
Jake longs for their last CO, who let him do whatever he wanted. But Amy admits that this anything-goes,
cowboy environment didn’t make her feel good. “It’s crazy how different things were
when McGintley was Captain. It was like the Wild West.” “Oh, yeah, we had some fun.” “I didn’t.” She internalizes this as her problem --
thinking it indicates she’s too uptight. But what her discomfort really shows is that she was stifled
by a toxic, macho environment. When you don’t have a supervisor
who takes care to look after everyone on the team,
marginalized people suffer. “I put all my energy towards rising to
a rank where I could make a difference.” Over the years, Holt may have
taken self-control a little too far. To a degree Holt’s evolution
on the series is about letting more of the
free-wheeling human back out. “Marshmallow...” [Giggling] He may be helping Jake grow up,
but Peralta’s boyish games help him to loosen up
and experience new levels of fun. “I can’t wait to go home and tell Kevin you can have fun
without being productive!” Still, if he let go too much,
he wouldn’t be Holt. Being bottled up is a key part of
what makes him such a hilarious and amazing person,
boss, and surrogate father. So just like his Nine-Nine team,
we can all benefit from the wisdom in his tough, visionary excellence. To be the best possible
versions of ourselves, we can channel our inner robot. “You don’t seem very excited.” “Oh, I was just adhering
to section 7, page 145. No emotional displays
in the workplace.” “Excellent. 