Everything about IRENE & SEULGI unit was a challenge for me We wanted to show you
more of the characteristics unique to IRENE and SEULGI
which we couldn't do within Red Velvet We incorporated what we've
built up during our six years of being Red Velvet in
the IRENE & SEULGI's album So we hope that you can clearly see such effort we made (STAGE 1)
(On the way to THE STAGE) - Hello
- Hello - Hello
- Hello - Hello
- Hello (STAGE 2)
(Rehearsal+Keyword Q&A) Okay, we'll start. Sorry Okay, please get ready There are so many - There are so many
- What are these? ( How do you feel
ahead of the first stage) What? I want this one You pick too I pick 'Let's enjoy' Good? That's simple 'Good' Ah! Good Ah! Good Oh! Ah! Good Good. Oh! Good (What does SEULGI mean to IRENE?)
(What does IRENE mean to SEULGI?) You call me, "KANG SEULGI" Yes, that's right. I include the last name Doesn't it feel like that? 'We're like family' I've seen her more than my family, right? We've lived together for a long time Oh... To BAE JUHYUN, SEULGI is KANG SEULGI That's how she always called me If you include the last name
some people feel more distant but I feel more closer to them
when I call them like that Because I feel comfortable with you
I say "KANG SEULGI" or "Hey, KANG SEULGI" But there's no 'Hey' I call you, "Hey, KANG SEULGI" Right (The response you're excited about
after the  stage performance) I said, 'Lovey fans are
as happy as they can be' I hope our fans become very happy
after seeing our stage performance I said, 'The new singers,
IRENE & SEULGI. Oh! Unique' Unique I don't think there has been
such a unit like this before I think everyone will be very surprised There's no 'Tore it up' The new singers, IRENE & SEULGI got to come on THE STAGE with 'Monster' We got to debut Are you curious to see
our unique performance? Watch There's no card that says 'Watch' Let's watch Please look forward to it Bye (STAGE 3)
(MONSTER TALK) Wow (Q1 How do you feel to form
Red Velvet's very first unit) 'Let's not cause trouble for
the Red Velvet members' That's how we always started I think we tried to show you more of IRENE & SEULGI's unique charms I feel rewarded and happy
that the album came out well (Q2 How was the process
of preparing the album) Everything about IRENE & SEULGI unit was a challenge for me I learned various things
as we were preparing and I feel like I matured a lot I learned a dance called 'Tutting'
in which you use your hands like this You even bend fingers for that dance I got to learn things
that I didn't get to before But a little... Maybe we should've gotten some rest? Because since then, we had to
keep learning something We kept learning choreography
and also other things so I felt like my brain was
going to explode in the end So I thought, 'Oh, I should've
gotten some rest?' but now that I think about it, even those
moments were all precious to me Yes The new singers, IRENE & SEULGI We were continuing to improve
without resting (Q3 The part that you paid
most attention in this album) We paid careful attention to everything
from the beginning to the end We shared our opinion on everything
including 'How we should sing each part' when we were recording, and even
in terms of the outfit, hair, and makeup Like 
or album behind-the-scenes we tried to leave behind many videos We tried to pay attention to everything that's coming from IRENE & SEULGI (Q4 Introduce Monster album) In terms of IRENE & SEULGI unit we wanted to show you a completely
different feel compared to Red Velvet We were thinking about what we could
show you that's unique to the two of us We thought it'd be good
to first try a concept that we've never tried before in which
we can show our 'performance' In terms of looks too as you can see now, even our hairstyle and makeup are somewhat similar but different. We thought
it'd be good to express this so even in the overall artistic look
or in the music video we look like twins but we also try to express it intensely
at the same time The music, the concept,
or the performance is something we haven't
shown you before overall So some people might feel
a bit unfamiliar, right? I think some might Since they've only seen
Red Velvet's cute and lively self When they hear the song name, 'Monster' - It's very intense
- they might say, 'What? Monster?' We incorporated what we've built up
during our six to seven years of being Red Velvet in
the IRENE & SEULGI's album So we hope that you can
clearly see such effort we made (Q5 Introduce Monster, the title song) 'Monster' goes into
someone else's dream and dances There are lyrics like this 'I'll dance and play, and cast a spell
on you as you have a nightmare' It's a song about a Monster who goes into someone else's dream,
and dances and plays to tease It's very different from what
we showed you as Red Velvet and you might think that we made
a surprising song choice - It's intense from the intro, right?
- Right If you watch the performance with it
it's even more intense I was really surprised The moment we saw
the choreography video we said, 'What? We'll be able to do that on the music broadcast show?' It's very intense to that degree and has an addictive beat
that sticks with you This intro part is very addictive Yes, it's addictive In terms of performance, it feels most
powerful out of all we've done so far? To express Monster we paid a lot of attention
to our performance too so I hope you look forward to it a lot (Q6 How you felt when you
first listened to Monster) I was worried a lot about what kind
of choreography they'll give us I really like it when the concept is clear The moment I listen to it,
if the costume comes to mind and if I get an imagery of
'what the music video will include and what type of makeup we'll wear' then I tend to like it a lot 'Monster' was like that As soon as I listened to it
something stuck with me and I thought it'll be cool
if we showed certain things Many images like that
came to mind so I liked it (Q7 Notable parts from Monster) The part that we create Monster together
with the dancers is very intense so that part is also notable And personally, I like the part
where IRENE and I dance together I like the feeling of controlling IRENE You like it because you control me? Yes We control each other Oh, right (Q8 The key point to enjoying this album) When I first listened to the English demo I heard a familiar voice Director Yoo Young-Jin recorded
the demo himself and it really sounded so intense and cool The part that says, 'I don't mind
this madness, I'm enjoying it' There's a part that you sing like that and I was worried thinking 'Wow..
will we be able to express that well? We got to record it under the direct
guidance of Director Yoo Young-Jin and I'm satisfied how that part turned out We paid attention to the tone for each song Even within a song, we tried hard to make the vocal sound
feel different for each part There are many songs
that are feeling based so perhaps you'll be able to feel 'Oh, they focused more on this part' We even changed the sound
of our breath as we recorded so please turn up the volume (Q9 Your favorite song from this album) I like the song called 'Diamond' because I felt 'Oh, I want
to dance to this song' I like the song called 'Feel Good' As I listened to all the mastered music, I ended up keep listening to 'Feel Good' Our voices are well expressed in this song and since we haven't done lyrics
like that before, it felt charming and I like 'Feel Good' the most (Q10 Say a word to each other) - Hey, you worked hard
- You worked hard Hey, you worked hard You worked hard Hey, it was tough IRENE & SEULGI isn't easy It's only the beginning We can do it It's finally starting now. All right - Let's not cause trouble for the members
- Let's not cause trouble for the members I'm generally not good
at saying such cheesy things I'm not good at saying it
even to the members. Gosh (Q10 TO Lovey) Our Lovey fans waited for us
for a long time so we want to pay you back
with a good performance Please adore and give much love to IRENE & SEULGI, the new singers Thank you As I mentioned to you earlier
in addition to the album, songs, and MV we prepared various things I hope everyone is very happy
watching our performance Hello, it's IRENE of Red Velvet We got to say hello to you as the very first unit of Red Velvet Since it's the first unit formed
six years after our debut so we had to think hard about how we should come to you We wanted to show you
more of the characteristics unique to IRENE and SEULGI
which we couldn't do within Red Velvet So we ambitiously prepared
for the song, 'Monster' Compared to the 'Velvet concept' you'll be able to feel
that it's more intense In this mini album, aside from
the title song, 'Monster' there are six songs of various genres Through the various genres, we wanted to show you that IRENE & SEULGI's musical spectrum is 'very broad' and also show you a new performance aspect So we prepared a stage
to really surprise you I think you can look forward to it And there's reason that
this unit album is a little more special Do you remember my solo
performance from 'La Rouge' the Red Velvet's third concert? The full version of my solo song, 'Uncover'
that I showed you there is available I hope you like it We brought you music
which feels familiar yet new You'll be able to see
IRENE & SEULGI's synergy through our first mini album, 'Monster' Since you've waited for a long time we hope that our album becomes a special gift to you this summer What are we doing at the practice room? What are we doing here? We came to practice
before we film THE STAGE - We can do it
- We can do it Let's all say 'we can do it' together You say it first Gosh.. seriously.. we can do it We can't get energized Cut Okay SEULGI Today's practice is over This is being recorded, right? The practice is over
and we're filming tomorrow Quickly The practice is over We should bring some things
for tomorrow's practice I'm so exhausted. This isn't working We'll bring things that will energize us - Bye
- Bye 