In 1975, a paleontologist discovered the fossilized
cast of what was once an animal burrow, in the KwaZulu-Natal province of South Africa. Back in the early Triassic Period, 250 million
years ago, that hole in the ground had become filled with soft sediment that eventually
hardened and preserved everything inside. And in that burrow, researchers discovered
the nearly complete remains of a small animal called Thrinaxodon, one of the early mammal
relatives known as cynodonts. But it wasn’t alone in there. Almost 40 years later, researchers took the
cast from South Africa to France where it underwent a high resolution scan, revealing
another occupant in the burrow. And it wasn’t another Thrinaxodon. It wasn’t even a member of the same species. Thrinaxodon’s roommate was actually an amphibian
called Broomistega. And that makes this burrow cast an incredible
fossil, because it contains not just the animal that probably made it, but also some unlikely
company -- a very rare animal that might’ve been among Thrinaxodon’s prey. So, this burrow cast preserves a snapshot
in time - one that’s given paleontologists a wealth of information about animal behavior
and interactions in the deep past. But how did this odd couple end up together? And what killed and preserved them this way
for a quarter of a billion years? Well, it looks like their luck ran out, when
a behavior that usually would’ve helped them survive just didn’t work. To figure out how Thrinaxodon and Broomistega
became entombed together, scientists looked at the burrow itself, along with their fossilized
bones. They concluded that the likely cause of death
was a flash flood that carried fast-moving water and sediment into the burrow, encasing
the animals. This would explain the distinct layers of
sediment found in the burrow, as well as the fact that the skeletons of both animals were
almost complete and fully articulated. Thrinaxodon was found lying on the floor of
the burrow, with Broomistega alongside and slightly on top of it, probably from being
moved by the flood waters. But what were these two animals doing in the
same burrow to begin with? Thrinaxodon was a carnivorous proto-mammal
and Broomistega was an early amphibian relative - not exactly a common pair. First off, we know that Broomistega is not
the burrow creator, because it didn’t have strong forelimbs for digging. And you might remember from our episode on
synapsids that Thrinaxodon was a burrower. So the burrow probably belonged to Thrinaxodon,
and Broomistega was just a visitor. From there, the researchers considered five
possible scenarios that might’ve brought these two together - and they were able to
use the bones of both creatures to figure out which one was most likely. The first scenario was that this was all just
some kind of coincidence. Like, say, Broomistega was randomly washed
into the Thrinaxodon burrow, by a flood or heavy rains. But the burrow entrance probably would've
been just big enough for Boomistega to fit through head first, seeing how it's similar
in size to Thrinaxodon. So it’s unlikely that it could’ve just
washed in. Okay, so what if Broomistega was dinner for
Thrinaxodon? Thrinaxodon did eat meat, and, well, Broomistega
is made of meat. And the researchers had noticed that Broomistega
had two small holes above its left eye, which looked like bite marks. But when they compared the distance between
those holes with the distances between the upper and lower canines in Thrinaxodon, they
didn’t match. Also, Broomistega’s skeleton was pretty
complete, and it didn’t have any other tooth marks on it. So it doesn’t seem like Thrinaxodon was
actively snacking on that Broomistega. Ok then, maybe Thrinaxodon was just stashing
it in the burrow to eat later? Well, this probably wasn’t the case either. Some modern animals do stash away some of
their prey to eat later, but this behavior is pretty rare, especially in hot environments
like where Thrinaxodon lived, where food decays quickly. That rules out three of the five scenarios
that were proposed. And if this seems like a lot of possibilities
to consider, well, that’s part of the scientific process! So, the fourth  asked, what if Thrinaxodon
was already dead when Broomistega wandered in? You can’t exactly object to an intruder
in your burrow if you’re dead. This scenario was also rejected based on the
position of Thrinaxodon’s skeleton. Its spine was curved against the wall of the
burrow, which suggested that its body was still pliable at the time, not stiff like
it would be if it had died and then became rigid, in that process known as rigor mortis. Instead, the flow of sediment and water
were able to mold Thrinaxodon’s body to match the curve of the wall. So it either died during the flood or just
before it. OK, so! The final scenario is that maybe Thrinaxodon
wasn’t dead, but instead was just... sleeping. I know this sounds like some kind of euphemism,
but this is what researchers think is the best explanation, based on the skeleton itself
and on what’s known about the environment that these animals lived in. First of all, the position of Thrinaxodon’s
forelimbs, to the side of its skull, looks like a natural resting position. And the Early Triassic climate of southern
Africa was dry and warm, and in these conditions today, there are many animals that do what’s
called estivation. This is similar to hibernation, except it’s
done in hot, dry conditions, not cold ones. Animals enter a deep sleep, or torpor, to
slow down their metabolism and reduce their activity during hot periods in order to survive. And it’s likely that Thrinaxodon would have
done this, too. Several burrows have been discovered from
the Karoo region of South Africa with Thrinaxodons found curled up inside, suggesting that they
were preserved while asleep. So, with Thrinaxodon in a deep sleep, Broomistega
must’ve crawled into the burrow on its own. Living amphibians, especially juveniles, which
this Broomistega was, are known to retreat into the burrows of other animals for protection. And this amphibian would’ve needed a quiet
place to hide out. Because, it looks like it was having a tough
time. The scans revealed several partially healed
broken ribs, suggesting that it was likely crushed just a few weeks before it died. Although this wasn’t a lethal injury, it
was probably really painful for Broomistega to move and breathe. So, based on all of the evidence we’ve managed
to find from this remarkably preserved fossil pair, we can finally play back their final
moments: It was a super hot day in the Early Triassic,
and Thrinaxodon was sleeping deeply in a cool underground burrow. Its heart beat slowly and its forelimbs were
sprawled out on either side of its head. It was in a deep enough sleep that it didn't
notice an intruder entering the burrow. Broomistega was struggling to breathe and
to move. It had been injured a few weeks ago, but it
slowly made its way across the dry landscape, looking for somewhere cool to recover - a
safe haven from predators. Finally, it spotted a burrow and crawled in. There was already something inside, but it
didn't move, so the young amphibian lay down to rest. Both of these creatures should’ve been safe
in the burrow, but it was actually a death trap. Suddenly, muddy water came rushing in, pushing
their resting bodies against the wall of the burrow, and killing them. The sediment covered their bodies, and over
time they became fossilized, only to be found together, 250 million years later. And this fossil burrow tells us something
about South Africa’s Karoo ecosystem and how species interacted, even in the distant
past. Different species sheltering together, especially
in spaces that are as confined as a den or burrow, is pretty rare, even in living animals. So this discovery is unique, because it allowed
researchers to investigate the interaction between, and the behaviors of, two very different
animals, one an early relative of mammals and the other a possible forerunner of modern
amphibians. Thrinaxodon’s burrowing skills are likely
what allowed it and other early mammal relatives to survive the End-Permian Extinction, with
many mammals still burrowing today. And this amazing find also shows the potential
ancient roots of a behavior still seen in living amphibians - the habit of retreating
to burrows in tough times. Both of these behaviors - ones that their
relatives still do today - were probably important for the survival of these species. This odd couple of the Early Triassic is a
snapshot in time, preserving a moment between two completely different species just trying
to survive another day in our planet’s history. 