(DAY2. LA) (#POP SUGAR) ITZY is great I never imagined how they would be
as a K-pop group together but they were the nicest girls ever (#BuzzFeed) I would just wanna say, have so much fun
with their shows coming up and don't forget about us when they become
the biggest K-pop group in the world They're gonna take over And I'm gonna go and sing to
 right now (#FBE) Working with ITZY was something
we really, really wanted to do because ITZY is one of the groups
that is bringing K-pop and making it popular here in America which is
something that's so important for us so we're so excited to get
the opportunity to do (#YOUNG HOLLYWOOD) I just met ITZY today
and they're incredible They're so cute, so talented,
such good style and they were so nice We're in Young Hollywood right now
Stay tuned for our interview. Thank you Hi, it's Chaeryeong here Today, we interviewed with four stations and went on a talk show But it was much more fun
than what we expected And they made us feel really comfortable
during the interview So I think it was nice (It's time for dinner already)
I've gotten a little hungry because it's dinnertime Now, we're going to go out for dinner and some sightseeing And today, I'm the tour guide (ITZY's USA TOUR) (Yuna Tour begins! Where is ITZY now?)
We're here! Something smells delicious (L.A., A hot dog restaurant
with a tradition of 80 years) It won't work if I say I want what
smells so nice right now, huh? (Looks tasty)
(Cooking hot dogs right in front of them) (Ordering the hot dogs) (Order complete)
We all like what's basic So we ordered five chili dogs One onion rings And the french fries I like This is the beginning of Yuna Tour And it's befitting that it begins with food (Looks tasty)
(The chili dogs you ordered (+5)) (Excited)
They're five basic chili dogs (★A toast to start off Yuna Tour★)
1, 2, 3! Cheers! (This is nice)
I've never said cheers like that before (A popular hot dog in L.A.)
Let me try the hot dog A lot of celebrities also came to eat here Is it famous? I think it's a famous restaurant (Restaurant expert)
Yuna's an expert on these things I believe in you Pink, which I love (The place is covered in pink)
Everything here is pink - I know
- This place is really pretty (The interior goes well with ITZY)
It's very street-style and hip It's tasty (An employee suddenly approaches) (and hands them something)
Oh, my gosh! Thank you! He asked how ITZY is spelled So I wrote it down for him (Hot dogs with ITZY's name on them)
He wrote, 'PINK'S LOVES♡ ITZY' Thank you♥ We'll enjoy these (★They're giant sausages...★)
Thank you It feels nice when you get a surprise gift
like this in another country I think food... is all about the sauce (Tastes like meatball spaghetti) It may also smell like curry Wow, these are so juicy (The sausages are Yeji's style)
Wow, they're flowing I've seen Yeji cook sausages
back at our place a lot (That's right) (Cool) I think this place
has been around since 1939 Wow, it's so much older than we are Isn't this bun tasty? (Satisfied♥)
I'm satisfied Where was it? Ever since we went to Singapore,
she kept saying she wanted to eat hot dogs (Lia's been wanting to have hot dogs)
I had strange cravings for hot dogs Not corn dogs, but hot dogs And I finally had them thanks to Yuna I brought you here because of that (Heartwarming)
Really? Let's cheer for ITZY once more! ITZY, ITZY, let's fly!!! Who are we? (Toasts to their showcase tour in the U.S.)
ITZY, ITZY, let's fly! I'm the one who brought the members
to this restaurant Yuna Tour So I'd like to briefly introduce this place You can see the autographs
of many celebrities And I didn't intend on it but I'm wearing a pink jacket (Satisfied)
That was a perfect finish to Yuna Tour (Yuna Tour continues...★)
It's not over yet To buy our breakfast for tomorrow we're going grocery shopping So here we go! (Taking a group photo before they leave)
One, two, three! You guys are all hilarious Why? Why? Why are you laughing? May I take a look at your camera? (Bursts into laughter
after checking the camera) [Yeji] Chaeryeong, you look great Thanks (Yuna Tour's final stop, grocery store
before they head back to the hotel) (PAUSE)
(An hour ago) (A grocery shopping mission
was given to ITZY) (Emoji cart)
(1. Each person picks an emoji) (2. Combine the emojis to make one dish)
(3. If you don't buy all emojis, you fail!) (*$20 per person / 15 min time limit) We pick an emoji And if I get bananas, I should buy bananas? But this is what I want to know Let's say we picked pancakes and bananas Then do we combine the two
to cook one dish? Guys, let's think First, there are fruits (Concentrating)
And bread... Since it's brunch... We can get bread And there's this one empty space,
so that we can buy what we want (Ryujin, you're a genius...)
Ryujin Oh, I knew it... Why are you guys getting so serious? It's just breakfast Breakfasts are important! As Yuna always says Please! You must have breakfast, everyone How can we finish grocery shopping
in 15 minutes? We can do it!
We just need to get one each Then, since we're buying croissant shall I get a jam or something? (But there's no jam in the emoji cart) (Ended up creating a new emoji) Okay! Let's do this!
We can buy everything in 15 minutes, right? (For the mission! LET'S GO) (One minute until the mission starts) (They need to finish by 8:05 p.m.)
Let's say, "ITZY, ITZY, yeah" before we go We've got 15 minutes starting at 7:50 p.m. - Let's meet at checkout
- We need to be quick (Chanting before they begin) (Determined)
Let's go (Yeji - Cereal, Ryujin- Milk, Lia - Jam,
Yuna - Bread, Chaeryeong - Cherries) (Team Shin Sisters) (They split into teams for efficiency!) Ryujin says she knows the lay of land (Off to a good start)
Wow, the croissant I think this is it But I can't find the price (Caught off guard)
(Oh... I didn't think about the price) (Umm...) (Umm.....) (Let's put them in the bag first) We each need to spend less than 20 dollars But I also want a donut
We probably shouldn't, right? Take... Take one (Team YeChaeLi) (Meanwhile, they're picking out fruits)
This is a cherry? (They're goofing around)
This is from  Wait, we don't have time for this! (Sloth Lia seems relaxed)
Have this apple To be honest, I also wanted to try that But I don't think there are cherries here (Sounding urgent)
But cherry... Wait! This way! Oh! There it is! Aren't cherries a berry? (Sudden change in shopping list)
Hey, why don't we get raspberries? (Raspberries)
But we really can't find cherries Or do you just want strawberries? Cherries and strawberries are basically
in the same category anyway Oh! Or green grapes! (Drifting further away...)
Cherries... (Cherry = Strawberry = Green grape?)
I think cherry is a type of grapes (Found green grapes) (OMG) I think these are what comes
the closest to cherries We'll get two (Team Shin Sisters) (Already moved onto buying milk)
I'll go get the milk (Checking carefully) A half-gallon will do, right? (Chose low-fat milk)
This one has 2% fat (Oh, right)
Half-gallon, how much are you? (Why does she seem so relaxed?)
4,000... It's 4,000 won (Already?)
Yuna and I are done shopping Where did Yuna go to find the cart? (Looking for Yuna)
Yuna, where are you? (Meanwhile, Yuna is smelling fruits)
Wow, the fruits smell amazing It's been a while since we all went grocery shopping together So I'm getting all excited (Ends up finding the cart herself) I found the cart, but I'm not skilled
at pushing these things (Wobbly) Oh... Pushing the cart is not easy (Team YeChaeLi) (They aren't finished)
Hurry, hurry! Hey, get the milk Oh, wait! Get the strawberry jam! (Looking everywhere for strawberry jam)
These are jellies (Strawberry jam, where are you?) (Found it)
Or the one at the top? Oh, this one's also delicious (Torn)
They're both good (Then let's just get the tastier one) Okay, then we're done Let me check how much time we have left It's been less than ten minutes Don't worry (Heading to the cash register...) (Bump) I just bumped into that pole (Bad pole, bad!) (Team Shin Sisters) I think the time's almost up,
so we're going to go pay ♪ Na na na na na~ ♪ (As the timer went off,
both teams finished shopping) But we did well, and pretty quickly at that Okay, everyone
We just completed our mission Clap, clap, clap We didn't check if we got all the items yet but I think they did a good job (Checking to see if they got everything)
We had money left over Show off your wealth, Yuna Young and rich (Money for the mission)
(What's with the face?) Fortunately There were cherries on our shopping list But we couldn't find cherries
in the fruit section So we were like,
'Are there no cherries here?' And thought, 'Should we get
something else instead?' We even considered buying green grapes (★Fortunately, found them in the end★)
But we found the cherries in the end (Successfully finished grocery shopping
within the time limit!) (Yuna Tour's final mission complete!)
So I'm going to wrap up Yuna Tour You're all carrying grocery bags
in both hands, right? Yes We'll make breakfast with these
tomorrow morning Today, we had hot dogs
that I've been craving On top of that delicious dinner,
tomorrow's breakfast is also taken care of (Applauding Yuna for being a
wonderful tour guide for the day!!!) We could feel the L.A. vibe thanks to you Thank you very much♥ (Good job, Yuna!!!)
Thank you Are you satisfied with the tour, Yuna? Yes, I'm totally satisfied (Happy to be in charge of ITZY's food♥)
and I'm responsible for ITZY's food Breakfast is important MIDZY, don't forget to have breakfast♥ We have our showcase tomorrow So we're going to have a good breakfast and get our energy up in the evening to perform well on stage
See you then, MIDZY! (Goodbye)
See you tomorrow, MIDZY Thank you (On the next episode of IT'z TOURBOOK)
(Their first U.S. showcase finally begins!) (Their passionate showcase
in L.A. revealed!) (Check out their first U.S. showcase
in TOURBOOK EP.03!) 