“You must take your place
in the circle of life.” The first line of The Lion King
belongs to its villain, Scar, who utters
a very relatable observation: “Life’s not fair, is it?” And in fact, this whole story
is about the universal rite of passage of learning that life really isn’t fair. Scar is annoyed by the social hierarchy
that puts him in an inferior position to his seemingly less deserving nephew. “When I'm king,
what'll that make you?” “A monkey's uncle.” But this kid who has everything
soon loses the center of his universe, as his beloved father dies
a horrible death right before his eyes. So The Lion King swiftly
and harshly breaks it to kids that, sometimes, life sucks. Not only do you have to reckon
with where you fall on the food chain, but even if you do get to be King,
you’re not exempt from the suffering and loss that’s inherent
to our mortal existence. The circle of life is just as much
a circle of death -- for you to grow up
and become an independent adult, your parents have to get older
and eventually pass away. Darkness is woven into everything
that’s light. So what actually made the Lion King
so vivid and life-changing for 90s kids is, it's not afraid to go
to some dark places. “Simba, what have you done?” The movie's enduring success proves
that kids want stories that make sense of life’s difficulties,
instead of censoring them out. “It doesn’t matter, it’s in the past.” “Yeah but it still hurts.” “Oh yeah the past can hurt. But the way I see it you can either run from it,
or learn from it.” So here’s our take
on why the brilliance of the Lion King comes from inviting darkness
into the Disney picture. So follow us on Amino today. The brutal, tragic death
of the good king Mufasa no doubt traumatized many of us as kids. “Long live the king.” Removing the parents
from the fictional equation subtly empowers young viewers
to think about being independent and self-reliant. But rarely do we witness
the actual death of the character’s parents. A big exception to this is
one of The Lion King’s key inspirations: Bambi, A story set in motion
by the heartbreaking loss of Bambi’s mother
at the hands of hunters. In Lion King,
Mufasa’s demise is even more shocking due to the visceral,
immersive experience we take in through the eyes of the son who,
until now, thought his dad was invincible. “But you're not scared of anything.” Then, while Simba is still processing
the unfathomable, “Dad…. We gotta go home.” The horror is doubled
by the psychological torment Scar inflicts, persuading the poor boy he’s to blame
for his own father’s death. “But the king is dead. And if it weren’t for you he’d still be alive.” After this point,
the journey that follows for Simba is about learning how to reckon
with the role of pain and injustice in our lives. This is actually something
Simba’s society has failed to do, too. The Pride Lands don't acknowledge evil,
wrongdoing or ill intentions. All this badness is ignored
and pushed out of sight, as symbolized by the shadowlands
which are explicitly rejected by Mufasa’s kingdom. “What about that shadowy place?” “That’s beyond our borders --
you must never go there, Simba.” Mufasa doesn’t explain
what this disturbing place is, or why it’s not a part of their kingdom, So Simba is poorly equipped
to deal with it, “You can’t do anything to me.” “Technically they can,
we are on their land.” Just as he later responds to tragedy
by running from it and suppressing his feelings. “It doesn’t matter, hakuna matata.” “What?” “Hakuna matata,
it’s something I learned out here. Look, sometimes bad things happen.” “Simba!” “…and there's nothing
you can do about it! So why worry?” He's been given no means
of addressing the unpleasant, apart from pushing it away. As perfect as Mufasa seems as a king,
his failing is not recognizing the existence and role of darkness in the kingdom. He’s aware of his brother’s ill will “Don't turn your back on me, Scar.” “Oh, no, Mufasa. Perhaps you shouldn't turn your back on me.” But won’t think too deeply about it. He minimizes the seriousness of the problem, “What am I going to do with him?” “He’d make a very handsome throw rug.” “Zazu!" This naive refusal to face ugly truths
makes the kingdom weak... untested. The godlike level of power
of this absolute monarch, “Everything the light touches
is our kingdom.” could easily be abused by a less
benevolent and selfless leader. Eventually, Scar brings literal darkness
to take over the Pride Lands. Now, to return and take
his rightful place, Simba has to understand the evil
in the Pride Lands in order to vanquish it -- and by confronting the darkness
as his father never did, he at last becomes
an even stronger king. His time away and his suffering
make him able to defeat Scar when Mufasa couldn’t. “All right. I did it.” “So they can hear you.” It’s also no coincidence that Scar --
one of Disney’s most popular villains -- is one of its most sardonically vicious. “That hairball is my son
and your future king.” “Oh I shall practice my curtsy.” and ideologically terrifying, The “Be Prepared” visuals
explicitly compare Scar to Hitler and the road to healing
and self-realization. Simba’s name just means “Lion”
in Swahili -- so he is the Lion,
the self of this story. The physical space of the Pride Lands
reflects the state of Simba’s self at any given point. As the name “Pride Lands” suggest,
a strong self relies on taking positive pride in your actions
and the group you’re responsible to, like a pride of lions. But when selfish, vain ego --
the negative version of pride -- is in charge,
the space of the self is ravaged, becoming a gloomy graveyard. The villain of this story
is actually named Scar…. So he represents that bitterness
of holding onto resentment over hardships you’ve experienced. “Well, I was first in line, ...
until the little hairball was born.” And within the story,
we can read this character as embodying Simba’s scar. The festering, guilt-infested wound
formed by his father’s death becomes so potent it takes over
the whole Pridelands, The visualization of his inner self
and kills off all growth there. Simba runs away from that land,
i.e., from himself, “You have forgotten me.” “No how could I?” “You have forgotten who you are
and so forgotten me.” And starts acting
like a different animal than he really is. “Slimy yet satisfying.” Simba’s behavior matches
the textbook portrait of a trauma victim. He exemplifies symptoms like shock
and denial, withdrawing from others, Feeling sad, hopeless and
disconnected and blaming oneself. “It's my fault.... It's my ... fault.” When he looks up at the stars
and senses the ghost his father looking down on him, “Look at the stars. The great kings of the past look down on us from those stars.” He turns away because he’s ashamed
he’s not being himself. When Simba sees Mufasa in his reflection
but denies this, “That's not my father. That's just my reflection.” “No. Look harder.“ On one level he’s saying
he’s not worthy of being a king, even if he looks like one. But others see that he is a king --
and that’s why they mistake him for his father. “Mufasa?” Rafiki --
a name which means “friend” -- represents wisdom. He translates and reminds Simba
of his father’s guidance, to help him become a
fully realized self. And what this requires
is for Simba to confront his past -- which means battling the scar
that all this time has been telling him the bad thing that happened to him
was his fault. “If it weren’t for you,
Mufasa would still be alive. It’s your fault he’s dead. Do you deny it?” “No.” “Then you’re guilty.” Once he’s liberated from the falsehood
that he’s to blame for his own trauma “I killed Mufasa.” ”Nooooo” “Murderer!” Simba is finally able to destroy
the wound that has terrorized him for so long. “Everything you ever told me was a lie.” And the closing scene of Simba
looking over the replenished land, is an image of the healthy,
complete self -- connected to the friends
and family who are a key part of him, ready to bring new life into the world
now that he’s inwardly prospering, stable, and stronger
thanks to the trials he’s overcome. “The king had returned.” There’s also a second universal
symbolic story in The Lion King: about the darkness that's inherent
to the passage into adulthood. Simba’s “I want song” --
the number that in many Disney movies clearly expresses
the character’s deepest desire -- tells us he wants to be king --
and he doesn’t want to wait -- he wants to be King right now. “Oh I just can’t wait to be king.” But what he doesn’t realize
is that with these words he’s actually wishing for the death
of his father, because for Simba to become king,
his father must pass away. “Dad?” “Hmm?” “We’re pals, right?” “Right.” “And we’ll always be together, right?” Later on,
his fear that he did unconsciously will his father’s death
may be part of why Simba continues to feel guilty, even long after he’s an adult
who should be able to grasp how Scar manipulated him. And this issue of guilt
over replacing one’s father doesn’t just apply to the royals. "In every boy's life,
the moment of greatest joy and greatest sorrow
is when he defeats his father for the first time." Think of the Oedipus complex --
which includes the idea that a son feels instinctual competition
with the father. “Sooner or later,
the son eclipses the father. It's the natural order. Yet it's frequently a stumbling block because the son's competitive stirrings
are accompanied by tremendous feelings of guilt.” “I see. Yes, it's the classic Oedipal conflict. My god, it seems so obvious now.” Simba’s terrible revelation
that his own independence entails his father’s demise
is like any of us realizing that the closer we move toward
adult self-determination, the closer our parents inch
toward the grave. “One day, Simba,
the sun will set on my time here and will rise with you
as the new king.” On closer inspection,
the main thing Simba looks forward to about being king
is the same one a child looks forward to about being an adult. “No one saying stop that,
no one saying see here.” “Now see here!” Having autonomy,
instead of being told what to do all the time. “Free to run around all day,
free to do it all my way.” The lion’s exile represents
that adolescent or post-adolescent period
when the youth has to leave home and seek new experiences
to develop a fully formed identity apart from everyone who knows him. “I’m telling you kid. This is the great life. No rules, no responsibilities. Ooh, the little cream filled kind.” He also needs time away
from his best friend Nala. “I can’t marry her -- she’s my friend.” “Yeah, it would be too weird.” So they can see each other
as adult romantic partners. But ultimately this lion isn’t satisfied
with his friends’ carefree life, “You are more
than what you have become.” He feels the need
for a greater responsibility -- “Because it’s your responsibility!” Which is what adulthood really is. The final scene --
a mirror of the first, with Simba replacing his father --
is bittersweet. Though peace is restored
and Simba has become a good, wise king, this progress is made possible
only by the previous generation’s death. “When we die,
our bodies become the grass, and the antelope eat the grass. And so we are all connected in the great circle of life.” The unsettling and mature themes
present in The Lion King partly come from the literary classics
that inform the story -- especially Shakespeare’s Hamlet. When they were working on The Lion King,
the creators nicknamed it “Bamblet,” a combination of Bambi and Hamlet. And it has plenty in common
with Shakespeare’s play. Young Prince Hamlet is visited
by his father’s ghost and struggles with suspicions
that his uncle may have killed his father. Like Hamlet,
Simba is plagued by indecision, “But I am pigeon-livered and lack gall.” When this lion starts living
like a herbivore far down on the food chain, “Hakuna matata.” It appears to Nala like he’s gone mad. “What happened to you,
you’re not the Simba I remember.” Just as Hamlet puts on a show
of madness as a cover while he decides what to do. “Though this be madness
there is method in it.” So what’s the point of translating
the complexities of Shakespeare for kids? “Well your father lost a father. That father lost, lost his.” Perhaps what’s most compelling
and enduring about Hamlet is that it so articulately
captures adolescent doubts and concerns. “Why seems it so particular with thee?” “Seems, madam! Nay, it is,
I know not "seems”.” Hamlet’s obsession
with insincere appearances is every adolescent’s fixation
on authenticity. “You’re a phony, like everyone else.” “I want people to like the real me.” In Scar,
we can also see the influence of Shakespeare’s Richard III,
which features an eerily charismatic villain, offering the audience a privileged view
into his secret machinations. “Shall I be plain? I wish the bastards dead.” And Macbeth,
the cautionary tale of ambition, about a man who plots the murder
of his king and is later unsettled
by the vision of a ghost. “Thou canst not say that I did it.” “His Highness is not well.” “Mufasa, no, you’re dead!” Aside from Shakespearean echoes,
the Lion King takes after the biblical story of Joseph. Simba and Joseph are favored children
cast out into exile due to the envy of family members. Each evolves from the carefree,
blessed youth into the smart, savvy adult who is informed
by the darkness he’s lived through. The difficult truth
underpinning this narrative is that no one gets to remain
in that state of pure love and light. Sooner or later,
we’re all exiled from Eden. Simba and Joseph have to learn, too,
that even our closest family may hate us, “Simba, Simba. I’m only looking out for the wellbeing of my favorite nephew.” This is an incredibly sad thing
to understand, that the most vicious darkness
often doesn’t come from far away but from those nearest
and dearest to our hearts. “I’d hate to be responsible
for the death of a family member, wouldn’t you agree Simba?” And from within ourselves, too. “You said you’d always be there for me. But you’re not. And it’s because of me.” In recent years,
more and more people have revisited the Lion King to say,
essentially, what if Scar had a point? “I’m surrounded by idiots.” The rigid social hierarchy
in the movie allows for no progress -- you’re born into your place
and there’s something wrong with you if you try to change that. “Why, if it isn’t my big brother
descending from on high to mingle with the commoners.” Privileged little Simba
does kind of act like an entitled brat: “I’m gonna be king of Pride Rock! “Oh, goodie.” “My dad just showed me
the whole kingdom! And I’m gonna rule it all!” Even Mufasa can’t help indulging
the boy’s obnoxious side at times: “Hahahaha, that’s very good.” And when we hear Simba talk
about his future reign, he sounds like a tyrant-in-waiting: “Well, he's the future king.” “Yeah. So you have to do what I tell you.” “Not yet I don't. And with an attitude like that, I'm afraid you're shaping up
to be a pretty pathetic king indeed.” He sings with excitement
of being in the spotlight. “Everywhere you look I’m,
standing in the spotlight.” getting more attention
even than any other king has, “I’m gonna be the main event
like no king was before.” and how he’s practicing looking down
on others, “I’m brushing up on looking down.” So Scar’s not wrong
to find baby Simba irritating, “Well forgive me
for not leaping with joy.” But it’s not like the uncle
has any problem with inequality -- He just wants
to be on top himself. Scar’s style of rulership
is exactly the nightmare, immature Simba describes. “I thought a king can do
whatever he wants?” “I’m king,
I can do whatever I want!” who’s more capable than he is. “Ha. Pinned ya.” “Wakanda is strong enough
to help others and protect ourselves at the same time.” Like Scar, Erik Killmonger spouts
valid critiques of society’s injustice, “It's about two billion people
all over the world that looks like us. But their lives are a lot harder. Wakanda has the tools to liberate 'em all.” “We shall rise to greet the dawning
of a new era in which lion and hyena come together.” And audiences find both characters
so compelling in part because it’s hard not to agree
with their takedowns of a rigid, hierarchical society
that excludes some from prosperity. But though Scar and Erik
correctly identify a problem, the only solutions
these characters offer are hatred, anger and destruction. So the conflicted young ruler
has to find a way to address longstanding inequality and injustice,
while preserving the delicate balance of a productive and life-affirming
culture…. “More connects us than separates us.” What Mufasa tries to teach young Simba
is that -- while the food chain
ruling our day-to-day puts predators on top
and prey on the bottom -- the deeper reality is that
the King is no better than the lowest in his kingdom. “Everything you see exists together
in a delicate balance. As king, you need to understand
that balance and respect all the creatures,
from the crawling ant to the leaping antelope.” death is the great equalizer Even if the pride lands
could be a little more open to social mobility, the film isn’t really trying to say
that some people are destined for greatness and some aren’t. It’s saying
that we have to earn our place, even and especially if
it’s given to us. “Oh there's more to being king
than getting your way all the time.” To be fair to Mufasa, he does,
in the limited time he has, start teaching Simba lessons
in resilience. “So whenever you feel alone,
just remember, those kings will always be there
to guide you. And so will I.” He tries to prepare Simba
for his own eventual death by presenting the silver lining
to the darkness: that while our parents pass away,
they live on through us. “He lives in you.” As much as it hurts to understand
the true meaning of the Circle of Life and how painfully temporary
all of this is, the best we can do to honor
our lost loved ones is to realize our full potential,
and pass their wisdom onto the next generation:
teach our children to be brave and equip them to face the shadows. “I laugh in the face of danger.” 