What Alright let's welcome back to my channel if you are new here, my name is Tom Harlock And I do not have an intro, but I do have a sponsor for this video. So a quick word from Skillshare Moving on to the day's video if you have been living under a rock, he may have missed the death of vine in 2016 iconic memes jokes and comedy moments vine had a tall however The rug was to be pulled from underneath the Internet's feet when it was announced that vine would be joining Google Plus Friendster MySpace and Bebo in the social media graveyard death affects people differently some people cry some people complain some people cling on to the past in a hope of reliving their glory days if You are new to my channel. You may have missed my vine 2.0 auditions from last year But essentially I asked you guys to send me your most hilarious inspiring Comedic and vine style videos for my perusal and judgment the result was thousands of emails Hundreds of worthy videos you guys loved it and I've made the very brave decision To do a second round of auditions. If you do not follow me on Twitter firstly you go into hell Secondly you probably miss this tweet where I asked you guys to send me your videos for my consideration and boy you did not disappoint with vines Co-creator announcing a follow-up app coming soon is seem like the perfect time to get some fresh content creating blood on my hunt I wanted to find vines that I could relate to What do you think of my haircut I did myself this morning because I'm having a midlife crisis didn't used to that And both of your parents are still married Take two steps forward if you grew up with a father figure in the home vines that acknowledge politics And vines that told me what I wanted to hear exactly what I needed to hear it when times get tough Normally people would just do crack but sometimes the good meat does the trick I needed tears And I wanted to see public humiliation And vines that transcended the language barrier somebody not a flushing toilet Was me well it was fucking what is Discussed and you guys delivered vine used to have a plethora of categories from animals to comedy But I've never been happy of what I've been given So I've made my own first up a local delicacy and a return of a favorite British undepressed Historically and largely due to me Britain has remained a centerpiece in the modern world and vine is no exception There's something about being from this island that gives everyone a little bit of a dreary outlook on life But nevertheless we keep calm we carry on and well, we usually start a war or to take a look at these Depressed Relationship advice fuck off just be single and be a nun Whenever someone annoys me I just pretend I'm Jeffrey Dahmer and threatened to eat fan-man my neck my back my Happiness has still not come back Next we've got a new category for you this year in the form of now That's what I call music ish Whether you like to play the triangle try to sing or just judge people that attempt to this is the perfect Category for you music really does make the world go round and with videos such as these it's not hard to see why Dear future husband, there's a few things you need to know Next up a personal favor of mine wholesome parents. I'm 25 and if there's one thing I've learned in this life is that people are Fascinated with what they do not have we love to watch people play sports to a level that we could never we like to watch singers and actors perform in a way that we could only dream but for some people the most Unobtainable thing in life is a loving set of parents to fill the void felt by many this category is dedicated to those loving moments that only a family could provide I Feel about the fact that they did surgery on a grape If you are a slight Ridge and okay raise your hand We all love our furry friends so much so that I believe they do deserve their own category And as I am the man writing and producing this video I have decided to name the aforementioned category animals gone wild No matter how much we love them animals will misbehave and if there's two things that Stour little has taught me is one Rats should not have cars or any mode of transportation and two pets should be filmed at all times Waiting for me We were just kids when My favorite things after a long day work is coming home taking a shit having a big-ass gold retriever on your life Yeah, they're fine Oh No, Brooke wait no Mandy. Do you want to go take a bath? Children what are they good for but manual labor and fortnight dances apparently Intention Oh From the limbo baby all the way to Madeleine McCann children have forever been getting her luckily The younger they are the more malleable with the average toddler being able to be folded in half seven times our next category Of course is children with soft bones If for some bizarre reason watching children be her it's not your cup of tea and you actually enjoy watching Talent I've got you covered. Don't worry Vine was so much more than Lele pons and jake paul and nash grier Magcon, and that's something I wanted to show throughout these auditions. I set out to find smart vine Fines that offend people guys, I am I don't know how to say this but my dad died. Oh, Lucky Finds acknowledging the people who paved the way I Wanted to see people being proud of who they are And true more emotion I wanted a few seconds to relax And then a few more to cringe Thank you so much for all of the people who auditioned and sent videos in for this video And the last I truly could not have made this video about you. I don't have the stamina to categorize every video I received however I did saw the thousands into hundreds So sit back and relax and watch the best of the rest if you enjoyed this video at any time Please make sure to smash the like button and comment Let me know your favorite vine down below in the comments and also subscribe for more videos all the time. I love you and goodbye Spare coochie-man begging me to open Freeze police put your head what's poppin super police? We'll take it from here Jesus buddy. Listen last risk can't make it tonight. Okay. He died duck. Fuck he did last Eva why was Gay wait, but I'm gay gay LEP dee dee Okay ravioli ravioli show me Sinking in my Titanic, haha. I have a life When you see a road work ahead sign and he say Robert you're sulking soon or anybody's girl I Have a theory about sighs specifically men's size Everyone says like, you know the shoe size your feet are the indicator that does not make any sense What does make sense is you should look at their hands cuz you know what they say God never gives you more than you can handle I Just fuckin spilled hot pickle juice And it went onto my vagina my roommate still asleep. So I'm gonna go wake him up a little bit of water instead. I Lost my virginity when I was 14, I was having sex in the womb with my mom fucking puss Invest in real estate. Well thanks to my company and I were able to give and who you think you're skipping Negro? That's right I see your way and I did not waste $20,000 on this ad so you could just skip it bring your ass here. You want to throw some? But feeling when your what's up with an enemy and you're like this town ain't big enough for the two of us and then You see it coexists ticker and you're like, wow. I need to change my worldview Yo because you're my drug dealer, hey man, what's up? Oh hey bro, I actually been working on Stages of social media Oh No kidding what's in it? Well so far we've got about 200 characters so I think it's going pretty well, so You have a bathroom, oh, come on, come on, I'll show you And as you can see here's the bathroom Very spacious. The fuck is PewDiePie. I only know my favorite YouTube channel The Fresh Prince of bel-air and if you listen real close you can hear the beautiful sounds of nature Super hashtag relatable moment when you are a dinosaur from The Land Before Time With 2000 lactate and crap says she's fucked my cousin Cruising down the street and my six ball jacking the bitch's Name is brontosaurus. He's bigger than my baby. He's figured the nerve am He'll eat just do big pants and then I'll do a little dance Shopping at the back street running through the pest like What Suicide is always an option devil. The day will produce pitch perfect 3, you're an animal. What kind of animal is that? Tiffany I met Obama. Oh, yeah, so did bin Laden Dysfunction Kaka God hates fags God hates fags. I've been gay this whole time and nobody told me that God hates fuck They say it's what's on the inside that counts but my insides stink I'm 14 I'm not building his idiot. All right. Fellas Vinny. I can't even get up in the morning without my mom I Asked the man who hacked the cheese thou art the man who hath the jerk Tell me why I look like a who from Whoville Grinch don't steal my Christmas. Hey, here's a quick fashion tip fro my fellas out there So right now I'm like a four out of ten, but I take my sleeves I just boost these up and now I'm still a four but more of my arm is showing so I might be doing this wrong It's really hard for me to admit but I have a fear of long words Isn't that cool tip of what a monstrous the creepy alley phobia? There's only one story in Balamory What about Tracy Beaker, okay, that'll be a 75 already Counteroffer two dollars That's me so I think how do I get in that situation I'm here to audition for the live-action Lion King. I prepared my monologue. So I'll just go ahead and do that Wrong I just can't wait to be king. Daddy XD good Why does the wine always have to be haunted? Are you sick of being alone all the time and doing the same thing every day? Well then consider being possessed by a demon Myself You 