Hey, guys. It is Chelsea Fagan, and this
is The Financial Confessions, and I cannot wait to
welcome our guest. It's our very first
guest, and it's like a nervous-exciting
moment for us here at TFD. or the show notes to learn more. And today, I'm extremely
excited because we have our very first in-studio guest. And trust me when I say,
I was at the flower shop this morning getting flowers
and scooting things around in the office. Because it's, like,
we're having guests over. It's very exciting. And it's Ingrid Nelson! Hello. Hi. The office looks
amazing, by the way. Thank you. And I also loved seeing
the waterfall feature, which is the bonus here. I don't know how, for
the podcast listeners, we're going to even be able
to accurately describe it, but let's quickly start by just
telling a little bit, for those of you who might not know,
which I feel bad for if you don't, who Ingrid Nelson is. Obviously, I knew her
throughout the years as a beauty blogger, which
I feel like has become, of late, a rather sullied term. But what do you think? I mean, I feel like also, just
even the word "YouTuber" has kind of become a sullied term. I agree. But I am proud of my roots
and where I've come from. And being on YouTube
for 10 years, to me, it feels like a
huge accomplishment and also a really big deal. And so I don't shun "beauty
vlogger" or "YouTuber." I think it's all been
part of my journey. And so-- That's awesome. --I very much see myself
as a beauty creator, and that has evolved
as I have evolved. And now, it's really combined
with how I live my life, which is, I try to be as
intentional as possible about living my life. So it's like beauty
and intentional living, but I totally see
myself as a YouTuber. And you also have a very awesome
podcast called One Step-- Yes. --which I was recently on. And we will link you
guys to that episode. I also just really
love enjoying-- I love listening to the show. And I'd love to hear just
a little bit for those who might not know about your
podcast and what you do on it. Yes, so the podcast is very much
my creative project right now. And I'm so excited that we
got to have you as a guest. But the whole idea
for the podcast was really highlighting
the small steps and big transformations. And so talking to people about
changes and transformations that they have made
in their lives, but also breaking it
down in a small way, where people could see what
has been the hardest step? What has been a step
that you didn't see coming and things like that. Because I noticed when
I would consume things, whether they were interviews
or things that I was reading, I always wanted to know, what
were those smaller moments in someone's life that got
them to where they are now and the journey that
they're on right now? I say that something like the
term "vlogger," or "beauty vlogger," or "blogger," in my
case, or whatever it might be, feels like a sullied term. And part of that, I think,
is because a lot of people have zero understanding of
what that entails as a career, but also because, to your
point, a lot of people, I feel, the second they get even
an inch away from that want to completely disavow it. And I remember this
year at VidCon, I saw someone on Twitter. And I actually
don't even remember who it was, but it was one of
the big OG YouTubers, tweeting something about how like-- they were so--
like, they could not believe like all these
ridiculous tick-tock teams, like filming themselves, and
running around carrying on at the convention center,
and how embarrassing, and this, that, the other. And I remember thinking
to myself at that time, do you know how
people looked at you when you were a
17-year-old recording yourself and uploading
yourself in your bedroom and how people would
have probably said the exact same thing about you
and now look at what you've accomplished as a result? And it really made
me wonder, how do you feel capable of both
growing past that label and redefining it, but
also not crapping on it or not feeling like you have
to escape what it used to mean or what it might
mean to someone else? When I look at my career, I try
to look at it in its entirety. And when I started,
this wasn't an industry. It was maybe like a year or two
into when I was making videos that people were-- articles were starting to come
out, where they were saying, you know, some YouTubers,
like this small handful of YouTubers, are making
a full-time living off of uploading content
on the internet. And so it was an
entirely different world. I entered this
space not thinking this is going to be my career. And it just so happens that, 10
years later, it is my career. And I think to deny the
beginning of where all of that started, when this was the
language, the only language that we had at that time,
I think to try and lock that part of myself and my
journey away and not want to fully acknowledge what
that has meant to my career trajectory is actually really
harmful for me and makes me-- it puts me in a place of fear. And so I'm welcoming to the
label "YouTuber" and "beauty vlogger" because I have been
those things and, in a lot of ways, I still
am those things, even as my career
changes and maybe other labels I'm adding on to
that, but that still is a part of where I've come from. And I don't want to deny that. I feel like, for me,
a lot of it has always been a need to have
other people see me the way I want to be seen. And particularly when it comes
to other people in my life who are not very online, which
is, essentially, everyone and certainly everyone
who's either older than me, or doesn't work in this
industry, or family members, all that kind of stuff. And it was very hard
for several years. Like, now, there have
been small things. Like, if you have
a physical office, it is difficult to deny
that that is, at some level, a real business. But before you have that, you
feel like you have to be like, no, no, no, we're
really making money, and this is a real thing,
and we have employees. Because for them,
there was no context to understand what this work
is or that it is even work. And even to this day, I can't
say-- like, I just this morning sent my in-laws a picture
of the office looking cute, mostly because I want to
feel like they understand that I have a real job. And I feel like I don't
know if we'll ever get-- if people who grew up
professionally digitally will ever get the same
feeling of validation that other people
professionally might get. And I don't personally
know yet how to completely let go of that. I have been on many
a family thing, especially with my in-laws who
are not American and have even less context for all of this. And we'll be at
a table, and they will ask everyone, every man,
every male cousin's opinion about some work thing. And I'm like, not for
nothing dickheads, but I have, like, six full-time
employees, and no one asks me. And I've been upset
with my husband before and been like,
well, what do I do? And he's like, you
have to understand it's not because you're
a woman-- although maybe in a little way it's
because I'm a woman. I usually feel like
that's always a piece. It's a little part of that. But also, he's like, they don't
understand that online is real. They don't understand that any
of this is a real business. They have no ability to
contextualize what you do. And they honestly
probably feel like they'd be stupid for asking questions. So I'm curious if
you've ever run into that feeling in your
life with people in your life and how you've kind
of dealt with it. Totally. I mean, I've run into that,
just personally and also professionally, like
especially in the early days, being in meetings with people
at major publications, editors, and having them sit
there across from me and tell them that
what I was doing, essentially, did not matter,
that I was doing it wrong, and that I should change what
I'm doing to be like X, Y, and Z because that's what
people actually want to see and just sitting
there thinking, what? I feel like it's going
to be my life's journey to release caring
whether or not people think I'm doing real work. That's terrible. Like, there are people
with real problems. Like, things could
be so much worse. But it's so right that if
you're working from home and you know that you spend all
day grinding it out and doing, to your point, what you would've
been doing in an office, somehow that is-- even though you
know exactly what you did, and you know what
it's going to get you, and you know what it
means, a little bit of it feels tarnished by
someone else thinking that you just sat there on your
couch watching Netflix all day. Do your parents--
do they know online? My dad has made a running
joke for several years of, you should get a job. And I'm like, I have-- And he's like, oh,
I know, I know. And I'm like, I have several
things that are going on. It wasn't until I had a
benefits card that was like, look at this insurance
my employer gave me-- Totally. --that he was like, wow. And he cried, and he
was like, you made it. And I was like,
it doesn't matter if I have like 40,000 listeners
in the first hour when I drop a podcast? No, that doesn't matter. What matters to him is that
I have the trappings of what he thought success looked like. And I think it behooves us and
it behooves all young people, but especially of our
generation in this industry, to take a moment
where you decide that you're taking yourself
seriously and that what you do is real and matters. The recent, bigger,
and more public achievements that I've
had and I know the work that it took to get
there, like my interview with President Obama in
2016, I know a lot of people look at that and think that
it was a fluke incident and that maybe somebody else
wrote the questions for me. I wrote the questions myself. And I know for a fact that there
were women and specifically women of color working on
the YouTube and Google teams who fought for me to
be in that position and that I had to go through
this vetting process that was super intense, where I
spent hours on the phone, just basically putting my life
story out there for people. And I know that there
were multiple pieces that got me to that place where
I was able to conduct that interview with
President Obama, but also ask him the
question that then went viral, which
was about the luxury tax on menstrual products. And I learned that
information by being in the menstrual
awareness activist space for, now, 12 years, but years-- even before I was
on YouTube, I was like learning about
menstrual awareness. And I had learned
information from other people at a grassroots
level, other women who passed on that
information to me, and then I ended
up in this place where the timing
was right, and I happened to be across from
the most powerful person in the country and
asked him that question, why does this luxury tax
exist on menstrual products, and he admitted to not knowing. And it's interesting
that some people will try to take
that moment away from me and all of
the other people that worked to help
create that moment. Because maybe they think
that "beauty vlogger," quote unquote, is
that charged word that can only mean one thing. Totally. So I'm curious then, when
you talk about, like, for example, people
wanting to take something like that away from you
because of the specific way that they see you or people
who do the work that you do, obviously, that then becomes
a moment where it's completely up to you to decide how
you feel about that. And I'm wondering if there
is something in there that you learned that you
feel is really applicable. I mean, obviously,
interviewing the president is such a thing to be proud of
and such a thing that anyone can contextualize. So even when some
people are trying to diminish that, it's, I think,
easier than some situations to hold onto. And I'm curious what
has been helpful for you in terms of like a
specific strategy for when maybe it's
not so easy to hold onto your personal feeling
of worth and success and even for people who might
be in a job that is incredibly thankless, or really underpaid,
or not treated very well, like, things that they can do to
feel like, I don't care what anyone else thinks of this. I know I'm doing good
and meaningful work. Yeah. I think that, for me,
ultimately that feeling of being diminished, either when it's
coming from other people trying to diminish me and then
I'm internalizing that and I'm starting
to diminish myself, I think, ultimately,
that is coming from this feeling of
scarcity and that my life has to be limited because
other people think that it has to be limited. And I think the
thing that helps me to work through those
moments is to not think about my life in
this tidy little box, but to think about it like,
I can love and enjoy beauty, and I can also be pursuing
things like menstrual awareness activism, and I can be
hungry for information and wanting to learn more. I can be interested in history. It doesn't have to be this, only
these things are OK in my life, and I have to shun my other
often creative or intellectual interests. It can be a, yes, I
can be this thing, and I can also be these
other things, too. Do you think that being
financially successful helps you feel that
freedom in some ways? Totally. I mean, I look at
my younger self, and I felt so limited
when I was younger. My mom had cancer
from the time I was a freshman in high school
past graduating high school. She was in and out of treatment. My dad died my junior
year of high school right after I had turned 17. My mom was the main
breadwinner for our household, and I had to support
herself; my dad; my grandmother; her mother,
who moved here from Thailand; and me. And so I came from a life
where there wasn't often extra. The money that we had was
put towards surviving. And even the money that
we didn't have-- my mom had to go into debt sometimes
to give us, just, like, shelter, and food, and just the basics. And so I didn't grow up with
a lot of extra wiggle room. And sometimes my mom
would go into debt to give me something that would
bring me joy or enjoyment. And when my dad died, I thought
that, from the movies and TV shows that I watched,
when someone dies, you get money from that. And, uh-- You're like, where's my change? Yeah, I was like, uh, aren't
you supposed to get something when somebody dies? That is so dark. I love that. I thought, that, too. I though that, and I was
also shocked to find out that you had to pay for food. And I remember finding
that out and being like, but the world-- but
that doesn't seem fair. [LAUGHTER] That is too funny. That's like the
belief of children. False. False. The TV shows and
movies that I saw where people were
inheriting stuff, not true because we actually ended up
in more debt after my dad-- Dying is expensive. It is super expensive. And having my mom
already be so incredibly ill during that
point and so sick was adding on top of the
bills that were already there, the fact that she wasn't able
to work most of the time. She forced herself to work
part time when she could. And so 100%, completely, having
that kind of mental freedom, a huge part of that has come
from the money that I have made and the financial security that
I now have because I remember, when I was younger, I absorbed
a lot of that financial stress that I was feeling from
the environment around me. And I would wake up worried. And when I started taking my
finances into my own hands-- I really related, when
you said on One Step, when you had money, it was
liquid, and you just wanted to spend
it on nice things. Totally. But I think that there's this
idea that has really permeated our culture that
having debt means that you've done something wrong
and that you're a bad person. Oh, absolutely. And I think for so many people,
like, debt is so complex. It's not just, like, me
deciding, oh, well, now I have a credit
card, and I'm going to go buy some nice things. Like, that was my
financial mistake, and that was something-- I was spending my money
on frivolous things, but that was also coming from
a deeper, more complex place. Totally. And then there's the
aspect of, you know, my mom was super
sick, and my dad died, and there were all of these
other things that contributed to why the debt was happening. And I think that we have
just been brought up to assume that if you have
debt, you're a bad person. And it is so much more
complex than that. And more often than not,
you're not a bad person. You're trying to survive. Totally. Or, like, do what
our culture tells you you should be doing in order to
be a respectable, "successful" person. I totally agree. And speaking of having to deal
with a lot of money problems, it's really important that
you have the right tools. So, obviously, Ingrid and I
both run our own businesses and have to manage our own
money at a pretty large scale. And we personally,
here at TFD, have been using QuickBooks to make
all of our money decisions and our various money
tasks so much easier-- everything from
helping with invoices, to keeping track of expenses,
to making sure your taxes are as easy as possible to
prepare at the end of the year. QuickBooks makes running
the financial parts of your small business or even
just your self-employed status so much easier so that you
can focus on all the stuff that you really
want to focus on. I've actually personally
gotten slightly addicted to checking out QuickBooks
because it's just so soothing and satisfying to see
all of our various points of financial health and
well-being in one place and to be able to look through
any kind of information I want to look through
about our finances. But even if you're just someone
who's self-employed and looking for a better way to manage
all of the ins and outs and, for example, remind you
to send invoices or send them for you so you can get
paid as early as possible, QuickBooks is definitely
worth checking out. You can find out more about how
to get started with QuickBooks at the link in our
description or the show notes. So one thing that we
were talking about right before we went hot on them-- before we started recording,
was how much rich people don't like talking about being rich. Mm-hm. So I'm sorry, but I'm
turning the spotlight. Do you consider yourself rich? I do. Ooh. Oh, my gosh. I love it. It tingles. I do. Isn't it exciting? I was saying how exciting
it is when people say it. You cannot understand. It's my least favorite part
of this job in a lot of ways, in this space entirely
is how many people that I talk to who have
money that even probably you or I could never
fathom, who refer to themselves as comfortable,
doing OK, doing well, all of those things, provide
every euphemism in the book, provide every contextualizing
thing to be like, I'm just like you,
because they are more uncomfortable with addressing
their wealth than the poorest people are about being
honest about their poverty. And I find that
not only exhausting and frustrating, in
terms of actually talking to them productively, but
also just like, incredibly unethical. Like, you don't
want people to know how much better your life is
than a poor person or even a middle-class person is. And there is a distinct
reason for that. Because you know, on some
level, that it's unfair that your life is so much better
than like a non-rich person. So on that note, why do
you consider yourself rich? And what does that mean
practically, especially as someone who grew
up without a lot? I think that I
consider myself rich because I have a lot of money. And to me, having a
lot of money means-- Pretty straight forward. Yeah, I mean I think that's
the definition of rich. But, you know, I will say
that even in the last-- this will be the
third consecutive year where, because my
income fluctuates, it's not exactly the
same every single year. But for the last three
years, it has been declining, and I still consider
myself to be rich, which I don't think
that a lot of people would still want
to associate with. They still think-- well, they'll
think that if the numbers are going down, then I'm losing. And I think about it in
context of how I grew up. And I'm just like, you
know, I'm consistently making $500,000 a year or more. We have to have like
a bell or something that we ring when people
say numbers because it's the most exciting thing. Thank you for saying that. I think that number
is so important. And I'd love for you to kind of
contextualize a little bit more about what that means in
the scheme of the work that you're doing and like,
for example, maybe why it's been declining, or what
brought you to that level. Yeah, OK, so I will say
that in the last year-- not this year, but the one
before, I made about $950,000. That's so cool. Oh, my god. I'm like, tingling. You are not using the
rich-person euphemism for that, which is-- High six figures. High six figures or,
it's been a good year. What the hell does that mean? I had three really great years. It's slightly lower this
year, but it's not anywhere where I'm struggling. The, "I had a good year" thing. It's like, it seems like
you've had a few good years. Yeah. Yeah. And so, this year,
I'm estimating that I will probably
close out the year, maybe around $450,000, $500,000. We're not at the end of the year
yet, so I'm not totally sure, and things are still coming in. But that is a decline. But I'm also very aware of how
that's still a lot of money. Yeah. And I am still able to have a
full-time employee, Christina, and pay her a full-time salary. She's sitting over there,
anyone who saw us look. Yeah, she has
insurance benefits. I have insurance. Like, I just bought a
place in New York City. I've been able to save
money from my years where I was making
more every year. And so even in this
period of, like, this will be the third year where
my income has declined, I still have
perspective around it. I'm still actively working
on that perspective. Like, even though I'm seeing
the numbers going down, it's still a lot, and it's
also more than enough. And so I also think about,
where is my money going? And a lot of it goes right
back into my business, paying a full-time employee,
paying for the benefits that we get. Also, I financially
support my mother, so that's another place
where my income goes. And then I also
think about where-- now I'm at the point this
year where I'm thinking about, OK, when I want to
make a donation, where do I want that
money to go this year? And so I think
about what is like-- I'm thinking about,
right now, I'm in this place of, what has
been relevant to me this year? What is something that I
really want to support? And so I have made my decision. I don't want to say it
now because I haven't made the donation
yet, but I know where I want to be putting it. And, for me, this year,
I think a big thing that I've been thinking about is
just supporting, specifically, queer, creative
people, and so that's where I want to be putting
that extra money that I have towards facilitating
someone else's career. Because I know what
it has meant for me to have the career that I have
had, which, in a lot of ways, has been self-made. But also, I won a contest in
the early days of YouTube, the very first NextUp contest,
where a part of it was, they flew us out to
New York and put us through this YouTube
camp where they had people come and speak to us. But they also gave
us a $30,000 check at the end of that camp,
which they have not done for any classes after
that first NextUp class. They still have the
NextUp contest now, but that was all
public information. Like, prize money was involved;
the camp was involved. But I cannot deny how
that $30,000 has affected the trajectory of my career. And I know how valuable
that was for me because I was in debt at that point. I was living with my mom. I didn't graduate from college. I don't have a college degree. And so I was worried
about, what is my future going to look like? And for the first time ever,
I had this nest egg of money. And I remember having
it and just thinking, I'm not going to fuck this up. Yeah. I'm going to do
something with this. And so I started using
it to pay off my debt. I used it to get my own place. I used it to invest
in the business that I felt like I
was growing, and I saved the vast majority of it. And that was crucial to
my career trajectory. And I know what
that meant for me. And so I'm at a point now
where I have money, I'm rich. Yeah. You're rich, bitch. Exactly. And I'm in control of
what I do with my money. And so I want to be
intentional about where I'm investing that money. And some of it is personal. Some of it is professional. And then there's this piece
that's outside of myself and my life experience, too. Well, first of all,
thank you so much. You have made my whole
week sharing those numbers. Did I ring multiple bells? Oh, my God. So many bells. We have to get a bell. Like, I am going to be like
shopping for antique bells to ring when people say real
numbers Because the avoidance of it is totally human. It is. But when you finally
say it, it's freeing. You realize that
the sky didn't fall. You actually did a good deed. Yeah, and more
importantly, I think it completely holds you
accountable to yourself. And if you feel bad
saying it, there's probably a reason why
you feel bad saying it. And I feel like, for me, it's
interesting because I think we're in-- we're obviously in
a similar industry but in very different positions
in the sense that-- so my turn. Not that this is a
shock to any of you who've watched YouTube,
but anyway, so, what I earn is very different
from what TFD earns. So TFD earns north
of a million-- I don't know what it
will be this year-- but, like, a million and a half. I don't know; something
like that this year. And each year, it's been, like,
three to four times as much-- very steady growth. But we've never taken any money. Like, we're entirely
independent. And my salary out of
that is $75,000 a year, which is a completely
active choice because A, I don't ever want the
differential between myself and the lowest-paid
person at the company to be more than a
very small amount. Like, right now, I think it's
like $15,000 for full time. But even if it gets to like
$30,000, $40,000, whatever it is, I want to keep that
differential extremely tight. Also, I am in a
dual-income household. My husband earns money. So I know that I can have a
great life earning that money, and I'm sure more will come. But I also own 60%
of the company. My interest is much
more long term. And also, it's just,
like, the decent way to be if you talk about
money as your profession. But I found that in doing that,
it's almost, in some ways, opportunistic for me. Because when I say
I sleep like a baby every single night
in an industry that is the most volatile and
unpredictable of any industry-- like, our office is
paid through the year. Like, everything
that we have to pay, we could pay in triplicate
if we needed to. We owe no one any money. And even though I can't buy-- like, I'm currently
debating how much money I'm going to spend on a coat,
which is a problem that I could not have if I didn't want to. I can give myself a really
healthy raise tomorrow if I wanted to. But, to me, the feeling of rich
that is so much more valuable is the feeling that, every
night when I go to bed, I know exactly
where everything's going to be tomorrow. I don't have anything to
worry about in that regard. And barring some huge issue that
takes the whole company down, even if that were the case, I
would have a six-month window to make sure everything ended
well, at the very least. And I think that, ultimately,
what I've found about being rich-- because, obviously,
growing up without a ton-- if you had asked me,
even at my early 20s if I had a company that was
earning in the millions what I would do with that
money, I would be like, I would be so rich, personally. [LAUGHS] Yeah! Ponies! Just an apartment
for the ponies! One apartment just for
the ponies and one for me. But I find that now that
that's a possibility, the ability to say
no to something is, by far, the better
feeling and by far makes me feel more rich. Going home at 5:30
everyday makes me feel so much more rich
than I think otherwise I ever, ever would. And whenever I read about
CEOs and business owners who, they work 80 hours a week,
they're killing themselves, it's hard not to think
that a huge part of that is that them and all their
bloated executive friends are paying themselves untenable
salaries that are 300 times what one of their
employees are making. And because of that,
they have, aside from what they owe to their
stockholders and everything, just like an undue pressure to
keep that up that I'll never experience, you know? And I feel like because
lifestyle inflation is so much easier to feel on the
personal level than it is on the business level-- like-- you have to be so careful
about every extra dollar you put in your pocket. And so even when we decided to
give ourselves, the partners, to give ourselves a pay bump--
our two managing partners-- my first feeling
and that was almost like I'd rather you
take it and I don't, not because I'm like some
Robin Hood figure, but because I worry that
with every pay bump, I will no longer know how to
live otherwise and maybe get even further away from that
feeling of like, my time and my peace of mind are more
valuable to me than any dollar figure, but even though
income-wise, I'm definitely not "rich" in that
category, I consider myself incredibly rich. Because worrying about
money is not something I ever do anymore. Yeah. I mean, I relate to that also. I think about two things that
are incredibly important to me, and those two things being
integrity and freedom. And it sounds like
it's similar for you. You want to be able
to sleep at night and know that you are being
honest with the people who are working for you, the
people who are in your life, and you also want freedom
to be able to leave at 5 o'clock, 5:30. Totally. And I definitely feel that. I see it all the time. I've experienced it, where
I've felt like I was just working all the time. And I think there
was an aspect there, especially when I was first
starting, to just somewhat make some money. And it was, like, just
reaching the point where I was able
to support myself full time, so maybe making
$3,000 to $5,000 a month. I felt like I had to
be working all the time because I felt like,
well, if I stop, is this all going to go away? Totally. And so that was-- I remember that being just,
like, a really scary time. And then there was
also the factor of it being the internet. And you can fall into very
much like an obsessive place with the internet when
you're always on it, and consuming what
other people are doing, and you feel like you should
be doing those things, or you feel like people have
these expectations of you. And often, that feeling
is the expectation that other people
are having of you. And you know, on some
level with the internet, that the music's
going to stop one day. Yeah. At the very least, your
music, not you, but our music. I'm not going to be you know 70
years old like welcoming people to TFD, you know? And living with
that knowledge, I think-- there's an
ephemeral quality to this industry in particular
that doesn't necessarily exist in every other industry. And I think that
the response to that is often, as you put it,
like, that desire to hoard and to be like, I've got to
do as much as I can possibly do while I can. But at the same time,
a lot of those people who are doing those things
are also spending their money incredibly recklessly. Like, we all follow people
on the internet who, whether it's YouTube,
or Instagram, or even having their own site
or whatever it may be-- like, clearly they're
successful, but, like, they're spending as
much as they're earning, or they're not creating
anything sustainable. They're not creating
anything-- like even, for example, you having your
podcast that is not called like the "Ingrid Nelson Show." It's called One Step. Not that you're doing
this now, but eventually, one day, perhaps there could be
another person who hosts that. Like, there's at least a door
open to your brand existing without you physically being
in the seat every single day, and that is one of the things
that I feel like I rarely see people on the internet
doing, is creating something that exists outside themselves. And like, honestly,
again, like, you're going to be not
desirable at some point, whether it's because
of your place in life or because of how other
people perceive you. And do you want
your entire empire to crumble the day you don't
want to vlog every single day? Yeah, and I think that
that is what sends so many people into turmoil. And I think that there is
also the aspect of the job revolving around popularity. Like, that's just what it is. Numbers are involved in the
money that you make often. And the higher your numbers are,
the more potential for money that you have to make. And so people feel
that they need to be beating the numbers
that they've had in the past and they constantly need to
be in this state of growth. And I also think
about the industry from a creative
perspective, too, because this is,
in a lot of ways, a creative pursuit and career
path for a lot of people. And if you look at
creative people who have existed over
the course of time, the ones who have
had long-term careers have always allowed
themselves to evolve into the next iteration of
whatever their creativity looks like. And I think that is on
the path that I'm on. I'm not married to this like
finite idea of who I am. And the path that
I need to be on, and exactly what my
future is going to look like, but I am paying attention
in the present moment. It's like, what makes sense? What door should I be
cracking open and exploring? What's interesting
to me right now? What can I feasibly explore? What has my privilege
opened up for me, and how can I open that
up for more people? Yeah, And I think that
all of those pieces are part of how I
view this career. But I know I'm not going
to be on YouTube forever. And I said that recently
and somebody was surprised. They were like, I've never heard
somebody say that before, just so blunt, in such a blunt way. And I was like, well,
it's just the truth. I don't know exactly
when that end point is. And when I do know,
I will definitely let people know in
advance so it's not just like this shock to the system. But I know there's
an end point for me, but it doesn't mean
it's the end of me. Right. Oh, go ahead. I think it's probably a lot of-- if you don't learn history,
you're doomed to repeat it. And it feels like all
of this stuff is new-- YouTube is new. Podcasts are new. Influencers are new. But they are just Hollywood,
and Hollywood has existed and show business has
existed for a long time. And we've seen the
repeat of those patterns by professionals who
are in a new industry. Totally. And it's, do you want
to build a business or do you want to be famous? And you can't prioritize
both all the time. You can want both. You can work towards both. But if you don't put
some of your chips on the business end of things-- I mean, we've seen how
that played out for-- if you look at the
history of old Hollywood, if you look at
the history of TV, you look at the history
of the supermodel, those are all new
categories, at some point, for an attention economy, for
like an ephemeral media thing. And I think it's really
smart to be like, I'm building a business,
and I'm conscious that this has a limited date. Because it's really
easy to think that when the whole world is
liking your posts, and you get to
interview the president, and you're very popular, and
your podcast is exploding, that, like, well, that's me. I'm a winner. And that's not always
going to be true. Absolutely. And I feel like the
more you diversify and the more you are outside of
just yourself as a human being, both financially and
editorially, the much easier it is to see what is
and isn't a good deal. Like, I am always
stunned at people-- whether it's a business--
because you always hear the stories about like,
so-and-so raised X capital. And it's like, let's
see the follow-up, because 90% of those
businesses are going to fail within five years. And in many ways, that
money they initially took will be a direct cause
of that failure because of the pressure it creates. Or you'll see a creator who's
got an amazing thing going on on the internet who
takes perhaps a television gig that's like totally
ill-suited to their audience and what they do. And I understand why it's easy
to take that shiny object, but I feel a good goal
should be to get to a place where-- like, if
for me, personally, if someone were to
walk by tomorrow and be like, I'll give
you, like, $10 million to put in TFD, I
would absolutely say no because I know that
that would completely derail my ability to have any control
over my day-to-day life, or it, or the expectations. But it would be a lot harder
to do that if it was just me as an individual, because
I'd be like, oh, well, who wouldn't want $10 million? And you don't have to think
about all of the various things that that's going
to have to support and what it will
mean on the back end. And I feel like a lot of people
in this industry are so easily pulled in by those shiny objects
because they don't have enough bird's-eye view of what it
really takes to make something successful that, how could
you not be tempted, you know? Yeah, I mean, I think
about my 20-year-old self, and I definitely did not have
the perspective that I have now in terms of money and career. And if somebody
offered me $10 million then, I don't think I
would have taken it, but it would have been
a lot more alluring. Oh, man I would have, and it
have been spent in a week. I don't know if I would have. I don't know, maybe
there's a part of me-- I don't know. I feel like I wouldn't have,
but I would have been like, ugh! But it would have been
a lot more painful. Now, I would be like, no,
keep that away from me. I'm not interested in that. Because I do
recognize that there is that element of control. And it's like you said. When it's highly publicized
that this much capital has gone into X business,
I always think about, God, that must be
so much pressure. Because they-- Oh, my God. Because they have
so many people they have to report to about how
they're spending their money and also all of
those people have opinions about how they
should be spending that money. And it's just, like,
burning through money. And then, you start seeing
the companies doing things that you didn't
expect them to do, and it's because they're
trying to spend this money, and their investors
are telling them, you need to be
doing these things. And they're trying
to please everyone, and then it crashes and burns. First of all, I have to say
that a lot of these executives were just on a lot of
prescription medication or something because
I don't see how anyone could manage the enormous
anxiety of that kind of thing. Like, being on the hook to
someone for $30 million, like, that gives me anxiety just
to think about on their behalf, but also, like, I know what
it feels like every year to 3X to 4X a business
and add, like, one employee every six months
or something like that. And that feels breakneck
on a personal level. And you're like, ooh, I've
got to really manage and make sure that I'm not spending
my whole time just drowning in paperwork or doing
this, that, and the other. Could you imagine going
from like 10 employees to 100 employees in
the span of a month? Like, leaving aside the
administrative nightmare that your life
would be like, you have no quality control over
those 90 employees you added. Like, the first 10 might
be great, but that next 90, you probably got
40% duds in there. Because who's
hiring those people? So, Ingrid, it's a
very exciting moment, because we're about to hit
up the rapid-fire questions. OK, here we go. Listen. Whoo! We need a bell for that, too. I feel like everyone has a
radically different definition of "rapid fire,"
so we're not going to limit you to 10 seconds. But, like, see how
snappy you can be. Be snappy. OK, what is the big financial
secret of your industry? And you know what? Since we talked so much
about the internet, can I specify this to be
about the cosmetics industry? Because I'm very curious. I think that it's actually
the same as just the broader internet. It's, where is the
money coming from and where has it come from? So-- Where does it come from? For me, it comes from
mostly brand partnerships, but now my in-person speaking
events path is also growing, so that's a whole other
element of my business that I'm growing out. What has been your biggest
money mistake and why? My biggest money mistake
was definitely having that first credit card and
just spending on anything that I could get my hands on
because it definitely ruined my credit, and it took
me years to repair that. So that is not something
that I would repeat again, to just spend without
understanding the deeper whys. And also, I would
say, ultimately, the biggest one is not
having conversations about money with people who
have mattered in my life in the moments that mattered. That, looking back on
it, huge mistake to not have those open conversations. And so that is something
that I've tried shifting and now to be more
open about just having this free-flowing
conversations. So when something more
difficult does come up, you're already used to
being in that dialogue. Totally. That was a good one. I also can relate, obviously. What is your biggest
current money insecurity? That I don't know enough about
stocks and bonds and all things like that. That is definitely where I feel
like I've done so much work around money and I am-- I feel at peace with
where I am, and I understand the deeper
whys behind my story and all of that. But the thing that
makes me just feel like this is when people start
talking about stocks and bonds, and they start going
into detail and I'm like. So that is what I'm currently
working on right now is having a deeper understanding
of stocks and bonds, and if there's anything that
I want to be investing in, and how I should be investing. And I've started
to do that work, and I've started
asking for help, and I really want to understand
it like on my own terms, too, and not just have somebody
else feed me information and then I just absorb it
and accept it as the truth. Well, we'll get lunch, and I'll
explain all of that to you. OK! Perfect! Also, I feel like the
financial industry is built on making people
think it's way more complicated than it is because then you're
more incentivized to pay someone else to do it. Totally. And I would say the
last mistake that I made financially is
believing the lie that because I am creative,
that money just isn't my thing. True that. And even less so once you
understand all about stocks. Exactly. Stocks. Stocks. That's just always going to
happen, when you say, "stocks." That is what they do. [LAUGHTER] He's like, ring the
bell, and everyone's got a little top hat. What has been the
financial habit that has helped you the most? Understanding the deeper
whys behind my purchases. And because I come
from an industry where, especially in the early
days but even now, halls are very much part of-- Halls are the devil. I know what it feels like to be
on the other end of that camera and to not feel so great about
the money that I have spent and what I've spent it on. There are definitely things
that I don't regret purchasing, but there were moments where I
didn't feel so great about how I was spending my money. And I have completely
re-evaluated my shopping habits. And I rarely shop now. And when I do, I
understand why-- the deeper why. So is it something
that I need or want? Is it something that
I've been noticing that is a gap in my life for
an extended period of time? Why is now the time
to buy this thing? And is this thing investing
in something more long term? So is it contributing to
my long-term creativity? My long term happiness? Like, what is the
deeper contribution? And so I don't shop that often. And when I do, I know exactly
why I am making that purchase. And I feel really good about
the purchases that I make. That's awesome. I'm not quite there, but
closer than I used to be. Look, it's a shiny,
tempting world, especially with the
internet, and you see what everyone else has. Oh, yeah. It is hard to navigate that
and to not feel the pressure. And there's even
more anguish when you don't know that financial
backstory behind the person. Totally. I feel blessed that I've
never cared particularly about the fashion stuff. Like, I would never care about
not having the right clothes or whatever. But I look at like the
Architectural Digest or Apartment Therapy Instagrams,
and every time I'm just like, I just want to die. Like, why do I even try? But I don't want
to not follow it because it's such a
source of inspiration, but you're so right. It's so hard to get
that out of your head. Yeah. And you know, I
remember reading a piece on Gwyneth Paltrow in the
New York Times Magazine. Did you read that piece? Which one? The long one that was written
by Taffy Brodesser-Akner. I don't think I did. I read it. Oh, god. It was an amazing-- I'll read anything about it. But, yes, I read that. It was an amazing profile. Taffy is one of my
favorite writers. But she specifically
said in that article, she made this connection between
something being aspirational and how there's inherent
suffering on the other end, the person who's aspiring
to achieve that thing. Gwyneth said that? No, no, the writer. Hello no, Gwyneth did not
make that observation. The writer made
that observation. And I thought it was so
concise, and sharp, and true. Totally true. Yeah, I have so many
feelings about the goop thing and what that
represents to women, and especially what
that represents to women who are experiencing
largely financial insecurity. Having it being tied
in with wellness, too. Well, like the word
"wellness," a friend of mine, her beat is wellness,
but she's taken that to mean just
like all the ways in which wellness is
a scam as an industry, and it's very fascinating. Her name's Amanda Mull. All of her articles
are fantastic. OK, I'll have to look this up. Yeah, she's fantastic. Actually, we should have her on. She's great. So as the last question,
when did you first feel "successful," quote, and
what did that mean to you? What does that mean to you? There are a couple moments
in my life, the first one being when I was able to take
I think half of my paycheck that I got from making YouTube
videos, which was I think somewhere around $1,000 at the
time, and give $500 of that to my mom to help her pay bills. And the second moment was
when I was driving on the 90 going towards Marina
Del Rey in Los Angeles, and I got a speeding
ticket and being able to go home and pay that
speeding ticket in its entirety and not worrying
for a second where that money would come from
and that it was my own money. Because that gives me goosebumps
thinking about that moment because that was not
my life before that. And I actually was
on that highway recently in the last month,
like going down that same path, and I was like, oh my god. I remember that moment of
getting the speeding ticket and how that felt like
such a moment of success, not getting the speeding
ticket but being able-- You're like, I'm going
to run someone over next. Not having that-- [LAUGHING] I can
get off for murder. I'm that rich. Move over, everybody! I can keep singing. But that feeling
of success that I wasn't worried about
the financial burden it would be on my mom, or where
that money would come from, or what the consequences would
be for not paying that ticket. And I think, ultimately,
for me, being successful-- I feel like I can say this
now that I have disclosed some numbers, but,
for me, because I came from an upbringing
where there wasn't a ton of extra money to be
spending on just entertainment, it was really
focused on survival, and now I'm in a place
where I do have extra money to devote to things that I
love, and that interest me, and the people that I
care about, I think, for me, "successful"
means, in the moment, recognizing that I have enough. That's so awesome. Wow. Ingrid, what a great
guest you've been. Thank you! This is amazing. Ahh! This is so exciting. I could not be happier that
our first guest like disclosed numbers, said such
valuable things-- like, I'm so excited because,
as we will probably get to know on
the show, everyone has a different comfort level
with talking about money. And that's OK. We're going to bring on
people who are like very closed off in that regard
and even talking a little will be a victory. But I feel like you
sharing those things is so encouraging for our
audience to whatever that thing that they
might be scared to talk about financially. Like, I know it probably
sounds counterintuitive, but when someone makes
as much money as you do, it's very scary to share
that number because it's easy to think someone's going
to get mad at you for it, or judge you, or think
any of those things. And so I just want to thank
you for being so brave, and thoughtful, and awesome. Well, thank you. I loved being here. And I think what you do with The
Financial Diet has definitely inspired me to examine
my financial story. And I'm also so grateful
to specifically the women that I know and that I have
admired who have disclosed their financial histories
and the confidence that that has given me. Well, where should everyone
listening and wanting more go to find you? Well, you can find me
everywhere on the internet at Ingrid Nilsen and also
on my podcast One Step. Which is awesome. Yes, and we're working
on season 2, which I'm really excited about. Whoo, can't wait to hear. All right, well, thank you guys,
and thanks, Ryan, as always. It's been a joy. Yes. This has been fun having
another person here. It's exciting. I love it. It's such a good energy. I know. And do not forget that
if you are looking to make any kind of
change with your finances, you are going to
need the right tools. So, obviously, we've
learned a lot here today about all the ins and outs of
building something real online. And part of that, obviously,
is keeping a really close eye on all the money you have
coming in and going out. And if you are running
your own business or even have a
self-employed side gig, you want to make sure
you have the right tools to make all of your
business money management so much easier. Well, thank you
guys for being here for our first whole real
episode after our pilot. It was very exciting
for us, and we could not have asked for a better
guest than Ingrid. We cannot wait to share more of
The Financial Confessions with you guys. And if you want to
listen for more of it, please check us out
every single Monday, new episode drops, and do not
forget to tell us on social or wherever you hang out online
who you want to see on the show because I'm ready to make
all kinds of people confess financially. Bye, guys. [MUSIC PLAYING] 