BenQ reached out to us to showcase their TK 800 4K projector. This thing is specially designed to be great for watching
sports ball, and since its World Cup season after all, we thought, why not build the dream big screen
sports-watching setup for nerds with the TK-42- what- Sorry, excuse me, the TK 800! YEAH!! WOOO!!!!! (Music) Step one is something to actually watch the game on. Trust me, inviting people to come over and listen to the game doesn't work, nobody will show up. "He's still there, he's got it!" "GOAL!!!!!!!"
Linus: Yeah! [Sobbing] "3-2!"
Linus: Yeah! [Sobbing] Linus: Yeah! [Sobbing] Now lots of people use home projectors for their
100+ inch home theater setups where they have complete ambient light control
and they're watching usually movies in the dark. And if that's your thing, then BenQ HT 2550 is a great choice. But this, this is a far better one when you've got more light in the room. Like when you're gaming with the kids or when you're running a more social event, where people want to be able to eat and talk instead of just being focused on the content That's because the TK 800 is rated at 3,000 lumens of brightness, It's got HDR support and it's got 92% coverage of the REC 709 color space, in part thanks to its RGBW color wheel. That extra slice of wheel lets white light shine through
for extra brightness to overcome ambient light pollution. It's not quite as easy as it sounds though. If too much white comes through, the image
can look overcooked and washed out. If you let in too little, then yeah, the colors
will look more natural more vibrant, but you won't get close to that
advertised 3,000 lumen brightness unless the screen is displaying a mostly white image. It's all about finding the right balance. Next up, if you're an insufferably competitive type-a, like me, then need some accessories to help you gloat. Now, you could use team specific celebration tools but personally I've always found it's cheaper,
not to mention, less likely to get demonetized to just throw as much obnoxious as possible at my friends. It truly is a wonder that I have any. GOOOOAL!!!!!!!!! GOOOOOAALLL!!!!!!!!!! [with the Vuvuzela] GOOOOO-!!!!!!!!!!! Moving on, our projector would work on a
plain white screen or failing that, even a wall. But this is Linus Tech Tips. I mean, come on! So we went way over the top with a screen that
costs almost as much as the projector itself. This is a 100% ambient light rejecting screen and it was sent to us by our new besties at Silver Ticket Products. Now a normal white screen will scatter
all of the incoming light which gives it diffusion uniformity or uniform brightness
across the whole screen. But that means that even ambient light
gets scattered, washing out the image. An angular reflective screen like this diverts off-axis
rays of light leaving the image crissssp. Which reminds me, pretty much the most
physical thing about watching sports is eating as much as you possibly can
and we have got our bases covered. See what I did there, with the bases? Hah! First, use Domino's Zero Click app to expend as few calories as possible. Their app lets you order your "usual", with delivery to whatever address is attached to your profile. Then, this is actually the techy part, you can use "if", "this," "than," "that"(IFTTT) to track your order progress like sending you a text when your pizza's been put in the oven or changing your Philips Hue lights once it's out for delivery! What?! Goal... Woo!!! Yay... (???) Linus: Nah, I think that was great. But all those reminders are probably just gonna make you hungrier. So you will need some munch-a bowls to tide you over. That is why I am jerry-rigging this pet camera, a device typically used to launch treats to your pets, to be my personal M&M, peanut of course, dispenser. You guys ready? Alright and go! Seriously though. For modern spectators, one screen is often not enough and that is why my events are always be why BYOT, bring your own tablet. You can use it to chat with other fans online as the game unfolds, hang out with a friend who's watching elsewhere, or heck, even watch a different sporting event all toget- really? Rocket League? It's an E-Sport. Linus: It's not a sport. Still a sport Linus: Well [???], how does this thing even work? Linus: How much did we pay for this?
-Put it in the front. Oh stop trying to put it in the background. Whoa! And you can wash those salty snacks down
with an always cold drink, thanks to this generic and very-Chinese looking cooling pad. Oh My-! Who set it to hot? - Suck it Linus!!! [Reggae Horn] Linus: So, thank you to BenQ for sponsoring this video,
we had a lot of fun making it. The TK 800 is a killer value 4K HDR projector and it's got support for deep healing 3D if you pick up some glasses, which is not sports related, but it was something to cover about the product and now seemed like the opportune moment. So thanks for watching. If you guys dislike this video you can hit that button. But if you liked it, hit "Like" and subscribe me. Consider checking out to buy the stuff we featured in the link in the video description. Also down there's a merch store which has cool shirts like this one and a link to our community forum, which you should totally join. What did di-? 