The US has tons of totally reasonable laws
that ban things like owning a tank, having a brown bear as a pet, owning a grenade launcher—oh
wait, sorry it’s the other way around. Your pet bear can legally do grenade launcher
target practice from your tank as long as he’s not using the tank’s radio while
riding through Green Bank, West Virginia. That would make this illegal. You see, because of this rectangle, in Green
Bank, West Virginia tank riding, grenade firing, radio using pet bears are illegal which, frankly,
I believe is a violation of our basic human rights. This rectangle is the United States National
Radio Quiet Zone or NRQZ which exists because right here is a super big radio telescope. In fact, it’s the biggest movable radio
telescope in the world—it’s the Green Bank Telescope. This baby’s got an 100 meter diameter collecting
area, an equatorial mount, an off-axis paraboloid reflector—basically, it’s a really good
radio telescope. Alright, 60 seconds of science time. So basically, radio signals, popcorn popping
microwave waves, the light coming into your eyes right now, the UV light the sun uses
to turn you into a tomato, and the x-ray the TSA uses to look at your bombs—those are
all the same thing. I know you learned this in high school physics
and are very, very smart but, to review, these are all electromagnetic waves just at different
frequencies, wave lengths, and energy levels. Now, normal telescopes that just magnify what
you can see are used to see things in space that you can actually see but this telescope
is used to see things that you can’t see outside the range of waves that eyes can see,
you see, and it turns out you can see a lot of things in space by looking at radio waves. You can detect stars, find gravitational waves,
look for water on comets, find aliens, (but like actually) but they don’t need the wifi
you use to order Weetabix getting in the way so that’s why this rectangle exists—to
make sure that as few other radio waves are around the telescope so it has the best chance
to detect the radio waves from space. You might notice that this is a big rectangle
and it is, it’s bigger than Belgium, but wifi isn’t banned in all of it. For most of the zone there are just restrictions
that prevent radio stations and other broadcasters from using high powered transmitters. The next level of restrictions are circle
shaped, like the earth! At ten miles out you’re not allowed to use
anything emitting more than nine microvolts per meter, at nine miles out you’re not
allowed to use anything emitting more than eight microvolts per meter, then seven microvolts,
six, and so on and so forth until here, two miles out, where you’re not allowed to use
anything that emits radio waves that would get in the way of the telescope including
wifi, cell phones, and microwave ovens. The town of Green Bank falls within these
restrictions and these ten to two mile circles are also about where you start to see cell
service disappear. These restrictions are also actual law—they’re
in the West Virginia Code—and breaking them results in actual consequences. For each day someone uses a violating piece
of electronics within the zone they’re fined $50 but as you get closer to the satellite,
the restrictions get even more restrictive. Within this zone, the area where most of the
telescope’s employees live, anything wireless is prohibited. Any other electronics have to be in shielded
rooms that will prevent radio waves from escaping. Then, finally, this area is the most restrictive. No electronics are allowed unless they’re
necessary and approved by the observatory. More interestingly, only diesel powered cars
are allowed as the spark plugs in gas motors emit trace amounts of radio waves. Most interestingly, the mitochondria is the
powerhouse of the cell. Given the rather unique laws, some rather
unique people have flocked to Green Bank. We’re not talking about Canadians, we’re
talking about electrosensitives. About a third of the town’s residents are
these electrosensitives—people who believe that radio waves make them sick. The scientific proof for the legitimacy of
such an illness is about as limited as the proof that Elon Musk isn’t two twelve-year-olds
in a trench-coat but still, Green Bank is a haven for those who want to avoid electromagnetic
waves. It’s about the only inhabited, modern place
in the world with so few electromagnetic waves in the air. 