- Over the past decade Vin Diesel has become an international
movie superstar. Thanks in large part to his signature role as big bald strong man in fast car movies. Oh. Hold on. Actually he's the other one. Yeah, there we go. Using his superhuman physique and almost supernatural deep voice Vin Diesel has carved out quite a niche for himself in Hollywood that doesn't seem to be
going away anytime soon. But while Vin has built a reputation as being a bit of a bad-ass onscreen, offscreen things start to get weird. Because when he doesn't have
a script to fall back on and has to form words,
and God forbid sentences, with his tiny little meatball brain, things start to go South pretty quickly in the most fascinating way. - When did this turn into I love you? - [Drew] But to understand who he is now, we must start at the beginning. Vin Diesel was born in 1932
inside of a burning building. His father, a camel worked
in the famine industry which was thriving at the time. - You know maybe I don't need to do a video essay for everything. Brush tool and... perfect. Hey guy, welcome back to
the first and only channel on YouTube, where as you
can probably tell I moved. And although I'll always
cherish the memories I have from inside that cheap-ass apartment that was basically just
one medium-sized room infested with cockroaches, I'm excited to move on to this new more expensive chapter in my life. The best thing about living in a house as opposed to the second floor of a three-story apartment is I no longer have to deal
with upstairs neighbors, which in my case happened to be six of the loudest human beings in the world. That's right. I said six. They also lived in a
one bedroom apartment. So try and figure that one
out because I never did. But that's all water under
the bridge, I suppose. Cause things are already
starting to look up for old Drew. In fact, why don't I give you guys a quick tour of the place? You already know your boy's out
here starting his house tour in the bathroom. But the fun doesn't end there guys. Cause we also got another bathroom. Finally, Amanda and I
can pee at the same time without making as big of a mess. We've also got a garage which is so far proven
to be the perfect place to hold all of my tool. And best of all, I no longer have to film videos
in my living room because for the first time in
my adult life, I have my own office. Ah, shit. Probably should have exited out of that before
we started filming. That was embarrassing. Anyway, guys say we're going
to talk about Vin Diesel. I have to admit I've never actually seen any of the Fast and Furious movies, but it seems like Vin Diesel is perfect at playing whatever character it is he's playing in those movies. But they're definitely not targeted at me. I've never really been much of a car guy. It's just not in my DNA. In fact, my favorite thing about my car is the custom bumper stickers I made and put on my car. I have a thread about that on Twitter if you're a fan of self promotion. But the point is I've
never actually seen any of the Fast and Furious movies or Triple X or Chronicles of Riddick or the Last Witch Hunter for that matter. Now that I think about it I'm pretty sure the only Vin
Diesel movie I've seen is The Pacifier. The 2005 Disney classic, where he plays like a Navy Seal who
has to babysit a bunch of kids as part of a recon mission. Predictably things get off
to a bit of a rocky start but by the end he's teaching them a thing or two about self-defense. The kids teach him about
the power of family. It's a great movie. I've
seen it like 10 times. Anyway, what I'm trying to say is I haven't seen a lot of Vin Diesel movies. Like I said in the beginning though this video isn't about his
acting, which is perfectly fine. It's about what happens when
he doesn't have a script. The most popular example
of Vin Diesel cringe was on this interview from
a couple of years ago with a Brazilian reporter and I'll only touch on this briefly because a lot of you
probably already saw this. This was on the H3 podcast. But it's still worth talking about. So the first few minutes of this interview are pretty normal. He's just talking about the film he's in and a little bit of a
history about his career. And then he starts to bore himself, and he instead turns his
attention to the interviewer and just bombards her with compliments. - But Tom Hanks was the
first one, and he... God, you're so beautiful. My God, she's so beautiful. Am I right or wrong? Look at her.
- Thank you. - How am I supposed to do this interview? Look at this woman. - Tell me your story. - She's so beautiful. I'm telling y'all, man. Talk to me baby. Let's get outta here. Let's go. Let's go have lunch. My God. I love her. Look how beautiful she is. - Thank you. - God. Wow, man.
- So, Tom Hanks? - Oh, wow. - He just keeps going
at it and going at it. And she does her best to get
the interview back on track. But then a few minutes
later, I guess his brain just can't handle this much conversation. So he just goes back to
like, you are beautiful. Let's go home and fuck. - I love her. I love her. Man, she's so fucking sexy. I can't do this interview. Am I the only one that's
saying it? Look at her. She's so fucking beautiful. It's like you can't even do an interview with her because you're just like da da da da da da. - Yeah. It's kinda hard to watch. But I guess that would be
the definition of cringe. So we're off to a good start. - When did this turn into beautiful world? - So that was a big deal
a couple of years ago. Rightfully so. It's very weird. But it doesn't even come
close to ending there. There's so much more. So let's dive a little bit deeper but to do so we need to
head over to Facebook. Vin Diesel is the King of Facebook. If you had to guess how
many people currently like Vin Diesel's page on Facebook, his fan page, how many do you think? 10 million? 50 million? Not even close. A hundred million people like the Vin Diesel fan page on Facebook. Vin Diesel and Facebook
are a match made in heaven. And the main reason for that
is Facebook live streams. - I'm doing a live, guys. So just have a seat and
this is going to be fun. - I've never seen
someone use so many words to say so little. Watch the first 30 seconds of this one and see how much he actually says. - I'm giving you big hugs in a second. I'm giving you big hugs in a second. I'm doing a live. I'm doing a live. I'll get big hugs in a second. I'm doing a live. I'm doing a live. - [Woman] No, he's not. - I am doing a live. I'm doing a live. And the reason why I'm doing a live is because... - Ah, wait, I think I
missed it. What is he doing? - I'm doing a live. - Oh, he's doing a live. Okay. After spending
about two minutes saying that he's doing a live
and eventually saying he's doing a live because
he's thankful to Comcast. - Comcast has come in and done wonders. - He says that, you
know, it's Saturday night and while everyone's
having fun, as they should, the cast of Fast and Furious
is here brainstorming ideas. - We try to imagine what would
excite you in the future. What storylines you would
like to see continued. And we try to find the
truth in our mythology. And we try to maintain the integrity that is what the Fast and
Furious saga has become. - Chew on that for awhile. - Just to give you an idea of the type of people that will come
and brainstorm with me. (laughing) - He's always blowing up the spotlight. - You get the feeling that
Michelle Rodriguez here and everyone else in the
room was like, Oh, not again. He's not doing another one
of these things, is he? He's going to incorporate us in it. And he's not going to say anything. And we're just going to have to sit there and smile for several minutes. - You're watching a
Facebook live right now. - That's right, Vin.
That's what we're doing. - I guess what-
(stutters) this visual shows you is dedication. A commitment to integrity. - Commitment to integrity. - So. This is a live. - Oh, It's a live. I wasn't sure.
(laughing) I don't know about you guys but it's hard to even
focus on what he's saying because all I can see is that
giant S thing in his teeth. But you ready for this? You want to see something guys? Just pay close attention to where it is and then watch this next clip. - Come on. Of course they can. (indistinct talking) Stop it. Listen. - It moved. I've never
seen that in my life. This is comedy right here, guys. I don't want to hear anybody
else's idea of what comedy is because it's this. We found it. Okay. Here's another live stream where he was at the Avengers
Infinity War premiere. And he's talking to the camera. He's addressing, you know,
the live Facebook audience. And then he goes to like
another red carpet interview. And like mid-sentence in the
middle of his own sentence, completely forgets that
he's live-streaming, and just casually puts
his phone in his pocket. - Look at that action.
(woman talking) All right, let me get on this. Guys. You see this? It's the group coming out on me. I came to the premiere- (muffled talking and cheering) - And it just continues to sit in there for the next 10 minutes before he finally pulls it
out and realizes what he did. - Yeah, no. Let 'em play. Oh my God. Yo you guys have been in
my pocket the whole time. - I mean, he obviously handled it well, but God that's hilarious. - Yeah! - This one actually
starts off pretty normal, but that only lasts about 90 seconds. - [Vin Diesel] Chinese food. - You see Vin is a big fan of milestones. He always celebrates a
milestone with a live stream and he just hit a big one. 50 million. But unfortunately, thanks
to some bad timing, he is traveling when he hits it. He's on a plane in the
middle of his big day. Not to worry though, he has
a plan to make up for it. He goes ahead and plays
this very special video that he seems to have
filmed and edited himself as a bit of a special treat for the fans. (loud screeching music) I mean, don't get me wrong his
silhouette looks very sexy, but God did he not listen
to that audio beforehand? So that goes on for about five minutes and then he cuts back to
himself and says this. (muffled sounds) He says nothing. He doesn't say anything. - That was pretty cool. - Here's another live stream of his that was apparently right before he was going on Jimmy Kimmel. Nothing too crazy to see here. Except 60% of it is upside down. There is one pretty weird
interaction here though. When he's talking to these
football players backstage and he refers to himself as daddy. - [Vin] They warmed them up for me. They warmed them up for
daddy. Thank you guys! - After making sure to establish himself as the biggest alpha male in the room, he goes out and nails that interview. - Purple.
- Purple. Maybe that's what it is. - Purple. Purple. - I'll admit that it
might be a little unfair of me to judge him too
harshly based on live streams. A lot of times in live streams, you know I've done Twitch a few times. You say some weird things. It's natural. - I don't have nipples on my ankles. - So I don't want to judge
him too harshly for that. But what we can do is look through some
of his Facebook posts. Now these are of course things
that he had the idea to post thought about it, decided,
yes, I will post that, and then he posted it. So a lot of extra steps there, a lot of room for potentially being like, oh, maybe I won't do that. But he went ahead and decided anyway. So these are prime Vin Diesel posts. Let's check 'em out. Here's a fan edit from
2015 where he is being sensually embraced by an elephant. It's not so much the fact
that this picture exists but the fact that he chose
to put it on his page. Thank you world for
making the new Triple X, the Return of Xander Cage, the number one movie in the world is the caption to this picture. (chuckling) I'm not sure I see the correlation. To accomplish great things, we must dream as well as act. Great quote, great picture. What is with him and
elephants? I don't understand. He's got some really good self quotes that he's used as a cover
photos like this one. Well, love motivates me in
everything I do. Vin Diesel. That's a perfectly good quote but why even include the well? It's like he had to think
about it for a second. Well, love motivates
me in everything I do. Protect our sacred places. And then it's a picture of him standing in front of Stonehenge. Guys. You've gotta protect Stonehenge. Have you seen those rocks, all stacked up on top of
each other all funny-like? We gotta protect 'em. Don't mind me, just casually skipping past three consecutive photos that
heavily feature elephants. Including this one where I suppose shirtless Vin Diesel
is protecting New York from a giant elephant? I don't understand. And then finally we have this one from 2012 captioned angels. And then it's... Well, I don't even know
what to say about this. So Vin Diesel seems
like a pretty wacky guy but it doesn't stop at internet videos or funny memes or live streams. There's one more thing
I need to show you guys. And I'm really excited about this. I was going to make a
whole video about this a few months ago, but then I just put it on the shelf for awhile. And then I realized while
making this one that this would make for the perfect ending. And no, this isn't
entirely about Vin Diesel. I just want to go ahead
and preface that now. But he does have a pretty
large role in this. And I would be remissed if I went through this whole video
without even mentioning it. And the thing I'm talking about of course is the Fast and Furious
ride at Universal Studios. Fast and Furious Supercharged
is the newest attraction at Universal Studios Orlando,
and also, coincidentally, the worst ride I have
ever been on in my life. When my soon to be wife, Amanda, who used to work at Universal, first took me on this
ride a few months ago, she prefaced it by saying that the line is better than the ride. I'm pretty sure she
meant this as a positive but after being underwhelmed by the fact that the line is essentially
just a very long garage, I started to get a bad feeling about what was in store for me. The first red flag that pops up is the sheer plot of the ride. I imagine between all 75 of
the Fast and Furious movies they could have found
one exciting storyline to be the centerpiece of this ride. But instead, here's the plot. You and the rest of the people on board are on a party bus and you're
on your way to a party. But right before you get on the ride you find out that the FBI
is here to raid the place. They never say why or what
the FBI is trying to find. I guess it's us? They're trying to crack
down on us having fun? I don't know, but like
that's the plot of this ride? Why not just, I don't know do a race, and then we
could just drive fast? That would be fun. I'd want to ride that. Instead, you spend the entire six minutes sitting on a slow moving
bus, watching the ride. This isn't ideal for a
theme park attraction but it wouldn't be the
worst thing in the world if the thing you spent
the whole ride watching wasn't a total cringe fest. - You're under arrest. Right now! - I've seen bad acting at theme
parks before, but good God. I thought these guys were professional. - We don't work for nobody. - Oh yeah, there he is. There's my guy. - Driver, move that vehicle. - He seems really happy
to be a part of this. Also, what the hell is this animation? Did they 3D animate each character using PlayStation 2 graphics? They couldn't have just
green screened this shit and spent more than, I
don't know, four days on it? This is embarrassing. And I'm not the only
one who feels this way. The top comment on this POV YouTube video I'm borrowing some extra
footage from, is this. The camera doesn't do it justice.
It's much worse in person. This ride does its best to
tarnish the great legacy that Universal Studios
has always had in my eyes. It's shittiness to me is
highlighted by the fact that it's right next to the Mummy ride which has been around
forever and is the most fun indoor roller coaster I've ever been on. I've gone on this ride
probably a hundred times and it's still fun. (man on screen yelling) You ride the Fast and Furious ride once, and it makes you want to
throw away your annual pass. I don't know how much they care though because they could have
put literally anything here and it would still do its job
of showcasing a few cool cars and the ridiculously overpriced merch. Including this entire section of signed to paraphernalia
by Michelle Rodriguez. Anyway, I'm getting off topic. This video is about Vin Diesel
and as bad as this ride is, it does do a good job of
saving the best for last. You see, I was pretty disappointed
coming out of the ride until I spotted my hero. My knight in shining armor. Vin. It's crazy he has the time
to stand perfectly still, all day long, considering all of his
movies that are coming up but I'm so glad he does. Best. Day. Ever. (inspiring music) Well, that was fun. I got to do that again sometime. So what was your favorite
part of the video? Yeah, that was pretty funny. That's gonna do it for today guy. As always, if this video
gets 1 billion likes I will legally marry Joey Salads, whether he wants me to or not. Remember to comment a very
specific reference to this video so you can prove to me that
you actually watched it and hit that subscribe button as fast and as furiously
as humanly possible. Don't forget to tune in next week to see me get stuck in a tree. Goodnight, everyone. (upbeat funk music) 