(Sana's Sweet Candle Workroom) Hello, I'm SANA. We're going to be making
scented candles today. I thought about what to do and I thought this was going to be fun so I decided to make scented candles. I really like things that smell nice so I collected stuff
like candles or perfumes and I thought it's about
time I made my own! As you can see... There are nine glass containers. Depending on how well it goes, I'll decide whether to make all nine... But if I fail at it, I might not be able to give
it to the other members. But first, I'll give it a shot. First, let's read the instructions. After you wash the glass containers, dry off all the moisture. This is mandatory, but these
have all been washed and dried. So we'll skip that part. Place the wick in the wick holder, then stick the sticker on the wick. This sounds like a tongue twister. It's drawn like this. Let me show you up close. I didn't know what a
wick was, but now I do. After removing the white
part from the sticker, stick it on the bottom
center of the glass container. Pour some soy wax in a paper cup and microwave it for a minute each
for a total of 2 minutes and 40 seconds. This is the soy wax. #SANA_the generous #Teehee Right. Put a scent in a paper cup and stir it with a wooden
stick for 30-40 seconds. (The scent) Stabilize the wick with a wooden stick and pour the wax into the glass container. You guys know what a
wooden chopstick is, right? Place a cinnamon stick
in the glass container before the wax hardens. Yellow? Place the cinnamon stick
when the wax has turned yellow. Yellow? I'll show this as I go. After melting the remaining
wax in a paper cup, and mixing the leftover scent, pour it into the glass container. I don't get it but I'll try to make it. After the top of the candle turns white, decorate it with dry flowers. This part is up to you. There's a tip that says you
should microwave the paper cup for only a minute
maximum to prevent a fire. We need to remember this part. If you decorate it with flowers, make sure there is a sufficient
amount of space from the flame. This is dangerous, but here we go! Step one is complete so... The wick... stick the wick... (#SANA #Looking for #Wick) I think this is it. Like this.
(Wick, wick tab) Where's the sticker? Is it this? Oh, it feels nice. You stick it in the middle... (Handling it) Why is it so difficult from the start? (In the middle) Stick it on the bottom. I think that's done. Get some soy wax... And microwave it for a minute each for a
total of 2 minutes and 40 seconds. (Calm) (Shaking) It looks like white chocolate. It doesn't smell nice. I'll go microwave it. (Place in microwave) (Whir) They say when you stay in front
of the microwave while it's on, your cells die. Is that true? (Talk to me, microwave..) What happens if your
cells die because of that? (Curious SANA) But if we put it in there anyway,
and we touch it when it comes out, doesn't that mean we get
gamma radiation anyways? (Curiosity queen)
(SANA.. Stop..) Oh, it's done. Let's check. (1 more minute!) (Shall we take a look at the instructions?) Let's pick a scent. There are a lot of choices. (The scents) Will my favorite scent be here? Oh! (Sniff, sniff) (Sniffing again) (Continues to sniff) (She doesn't say anything) (Checking the wax first!) It's all melted!
Do we have to microwave it again? (Hm) It's completely melted. Do I have to do more? It says you should microwave it for
a total of 2 minutes and 40 seconds, but I think you guys should check each time after you microwave it. We add the scent now, right? If we don't hurry, it hardens, right? (Before it hardens!) (Couldn't find the one she likes...) I think the Garden Sweet Pea
scent smells nice. Oh, Black Cherry smells nice as well! I know for a fact that
Grapefruit isn't my thing. There are people out there
that like the scent of grapefruit. Does anyone here like it? No? No one here, I guess. (Still picking her scent..) I'm reminded of DAHYUN
when I smell Baby Powder. The perfume that DAHYUN used before smelled like Baby Powder. I'll try using Black Cherry first. Black Cherry?
Okay! No, I'll start with DAHYUN's first,
Baby Powder. Wooden stick? What wooden stick? Ah, we use wooden chopsticks? So we don't have to use a wooden stick? Put it in... I put it all in, right? (And you mix it well~~~) (Sniff, sniff) #I miss #DAHYUN #MissingDAHYUN (Placing the wick) Make sure it doesn't move?
But it's moving. Oh, like this. Pour the wax in! (Pouring) (Empty) We wait now? Oh, so while we wait, we can work on other things!
Okay! Okay, okay. NA, JEONG, MO, SA, JI, MI, DA #Second #Candle #Leggo I feel like some members won't use this. I don't think NAYEON uses a candle. JEONGYEON... She's using one I made for her before. MOMO and I use one... I don't know if JIHYO uses candles. I don't know if MINA uses it either. I don't think DAHYUN would use this. I don't think she will, but... It's a scent that reminds
me of DAHYUN, so... CHAEYOUNG definitely wouldn't use one. I don't think TZUYU would use it, either. Seems like there are a lot of
members who wouldn't use it. I'm getting used to making these. I can stick another wick
while this is in the microwave. It's fun! What I'm nervous about is... I'm a person who rips things
up and starts from the beginning when I'm not satisfied with something. If I'm not satisfied
while decorating this... I'm a bit worried about that... But I'll do my best. It's quite a burden to
make all nine candles... I have to make each one perfectly... (#It's fine #Don't worry #Sha sha sha) I never thought I'd make scented candles. I'll make CHAEYOUNG's
Saryeoni Forest scented. (Look forward to it, CHAEYOUNG~~) NA, JEONG, MO, SA, JI, MI, DA, CHAE! (Moving it to CHAEYOUNG's spot) (Careful) A scent that TZUYU likes? I think she likes something similar to me. (Sniff, sniff) Nope. Should I make TZUYU's
smell like Baby Powder? I'll make TZUYU's Baby Powder scented. (Pauses) (Hold on..) (Sniffs again) (Wondering) (#Whatever #It's hard) What do I do? I'll make TZUYU's Baby Powder scented, and I'll make DAHYUN's
Clean Cotton scented. Let me switch these around... And I have to pour this in... I didn't turn on the microwave, right? (#I #Forgot #About #That) (Pouring again) (Perfect) Who's next? Should I make NAYEON's Grapefruit scented? Let me do these first. (Waiting)
(Staring) (Impatient) Ah, we have to wait.
I'm pretty impatient, though. You know how, like... You want to speed things up and... While you're doing it... What's this part called?
Heel? Oh, the elbow. You bump your elbow and you mess things up. I'll pour in the Clean Cotton scent... It's got a really strong smell. It's making me dizzy. Whenever I go pick a perfume, I don't really know if I like the fragrance so it gets me dizzy sometimes. (Checking the
microwave ★★★) (Come here) I'm getting used to it. This is NAYEON's. (#Stretching #Before #Working) (Squeeze) Grapefruit isn't bad at all! But I don't like the smell of grapefruit when it comes to perfume or scents. I like a mixture of flowers and candies. I thought I liked the smell of flowers and I bought everything
that smells like flowers, but when I got in the
car, I got really car sick. So I guess I only like it when
I smell it on other people. That's when I found that out. MINA and JIHYO like the same scent. They really like the scent of flowers. (#Find #The #Flower #Scent) Um... (WonderingX1229) (Continuously mentioning the members' names) (Sniffs again) I'll use the Black Cherry... And add it. (Black Cherry is OK) This might be TMI, but
the diffuser in my room was something I made myself. I picked the scent and made it myself. I think there are many instances
of failures when it comes to scents. It might smell really nice on the spot, but when you use it, it might
be too strong or too weak. Or it might not be something you imagined. When you buy perfume, you should test it out a couple times and since scent changes with temperature, you should keep that it mind and when you're sure,
that's when you should purchase it. Let me take a 30 second break. (End of break, back to work) Beep, beep. (Hold on a second, microwave!) (I'm coming~) Why did I smell this? (Sniffing everything first..) (Sniffing everything) (Sniffs again) I'll just put it in. (Hesitation X) What did I use this for? Grapefruit. I don't really care anymore. Who cares. The fourth one is for MINA... We'll heat three of these at once. (Scented candles are all about waiting) (TMT SANA waiting silently) (..but she goes to the microwave again!) (Hurry!) (It's done!) (All done!) Here. We. Go. (Focused) I think my hands will start shaking soon. Oh, I think I'll have to put it in, now! The first one is always a failure. It might not be pretty. (Puts it inside) (Super calm) I'm so nervous. (#Super #Focused #Cinnamon) It'll be ruined if I take this out, right? Whatever, I think it's a failure. Here? I don't know how this will come out. (No? Is it okay?) I don't like it. I might fail if I put in too much effort. Go in! What is this? (Breaking the cinnamon!) (The cautious SANA
continues to make the candle!) (Will she be able to make the candles?) 