America: land of the free, home of the, “holy
forking shirt we’re about to die in at least seven different ways.” The good news for Americans, though, is that
while your face is being melted off in a doomsday scenario, your leaders will be safe to govern
all the literally dozens of you. That’s because the US has a few of these
bad boys—the Boeing E-4 Advanced Airborne Command Post. The four E-4B’s in existence are modified
Boeing 747’s meant to essentially be a bunker for the the US President, secretary of Defense,
military chiefs of staff, and their successors but in the sky. It’s basically everyone needed to manifest
all the destinies in the post-apocalyptic world. Each of these planes cost the US government
a cool $350 million—nearly double the cost of a stock 747-200—as these planes were
very highly customized to survive even the worst disasters. And I’m not talking about truck stop Taco
Bell bathroom kind of disaster, I’m talking about an even worse flavor of explosion—the
nuclear kind. All of the E-4B’s electronics are shielded
to survive the electromagnetic pulse of a nuclear explosion. For the same reason, unlike most airplanes
flying today, the cockpit is fully analog—there are almost no electronics that could be affected
by an EMP. Unlike the Boeing VC-25’s that typically
serve as Air Force One, the Boeing E-4B’s have slightly fewer luxuries since if this
plane is ever to be used for its primary purpose, the luxury is one having a face that is not,
in fact, melted off. Upstairs, behind the cockpit, are a number
of bunks that serve as a rest area for the crew of the aircraft. Now, the E-4B can sip some jet juice midair
and it’s designed to be able to stay safely airborne for up to a week so it is important
that those working on this plane have real beds to sleep in. For the same reason, the plane also carries
at least 700 shelf-stable military meals ready-to-eat as well as some cake, I guess. Downstairs, in the nose of the plane is a
small suite where the highest ranking person on the aircraft, typically the Secretary of
Defense or the President, would sleep and work. Just behind that is the galley where flight
attendants, yes the apocalypse includes flight attendants, can prepare meals. Just behind that is the conference room for
in-flight meetings. Moving on, there’s a press area where a
select 17 journalists would attend press briefings and use the communications to pass on the
crucial information about how yes, dead citizens, your president is alive and well. The largest area, though, is the 5,000 square
foot battle-staff cabin. This is where the crucial individuals needed
to coordinate the post-apocalyptic war would work. It’s like the Pentagon minus one gon and
smaller and on a plane. Moving on, there’s a communications center
through which all the means of communications would be operated. In order to communicate with basically anything,
this plane’s got just all the different communications. It’s got the low frequency radio, it’s
got the very low frequency radio, the high frequency radio, the very high frequency,
the super high frequency, the satellites, the smoke signals, the messenger pigeons,
just all the communications. In fact, in order to send the lowest of low
frequency radio waves, the plane has a five mile, eight kilometer long trailing antenna
that it lets out behind the aircraft in flight. The very whelming finale to the onboard tour,
though, is a super-exciting secondary crew rest area at the back. Outside, the main distinguishing feature is
this large radome that holds all the antennas and the like for all the different communications. Also a noticeable unique feature is that the
plane carries its own stairs since, if the world is ending, it might be hard to convince
someone to stick around to move portable stairs away. Now, since doomsday could happen at literally
any moment, E-4B’s are ready to go at any moment. During the Cold War era these aircraft camped
out at Andrews Air Force Base near DC in order to be closer to the President, but nowadays,
it’s believed that doomsday is just a little less imminent so the aircraft are stationed
at Offutt Air Force Base near Omaha, Nebraska because really, who would nuke Nebraska? Still, though, there is always at least one
E-4B with crew onboard ready to take-off at a moments notice. When a US president travels outside the continental
US, an E-4B often follows and lands nearby in case of catastrophe. They usually don’t land at the same airport
as Air Force One presumably in case something happens to that airport. For example, when Presidents Bush and Obama
have visited Honolulu, Hawaii, an E-4B was seen each time nearby at Hilo International
Airport on the Big Island. More regularly, though, E-4B’s serve as
the primary means of transport for the American secretary of defense when going outside the
US. Overall, though, as far as we know, doomsday
has not yet occurred so these E-4B have never been used for their true apocalyptic mission. Of course, in the post-war apocalyptic nuclear
wasteland there are a lot of things you’ll have to remember like, “are deer supposed
to have three tails or four,” and, “are we allied with the Carolina cannibals, the
Appalachian assassins, or Florida?” 