Hey brother, just as a quick heads up, we are going to have
spoilers for episode one of The Mandalorian in today's episode. So you've been warned. But oh my gosh, you guys
Disney plus is finally live. And with that, we get the
first ever live action Star Wars TV show, The
Mandalorian, and guys, I'm not going to lie. I was a little bit nervous about this one. Star Wars can always be
a little bit hit or miss. And I was a little concerned
that they were going to rely on like our fandom of Boba Fett
in order to make this show run. But as of episode one, I personally think that we are off to a very good start. Our lead's name isn't even
mentioned, and he barely talks. And somehow he's still like a
super captivating character. And I already have so many questions. Will he ever take his helmet off? What happened to his parents? Is IG-11 actually dead,
or will he just keep being rebuilt with a vengeance? I definitely hope so. Him and our main dude
could be best friends. These aren't even questions anymore. Why am I talking like this? Hey, that one was a question. Also, I am so psyched to see him collect the rest of his armor. I can't exactly put my finger on, like, what I love so much about that, but there's nothing more fun than watching the main dude get new gear. But obviously the most important question that anybody is probably asking is "where did the little
tiny baby Yoda come from?" In fact, where was even regular Yoda from? Today, we get to the bottom of it. (ominous music) Hey Brother! Okay, so just a quick
recap to get us started. The first episode of the
Mandalorian shows us our main lead out there, just kind of
tracking down his bounties. He effortlessly wins a bar
fight, fends off a giant ice monster, and is hungry for the
biggest bounty he can find. He is instead given an
address where he runs into some ex-Imperial
officers and Stormtroopers who give him a tracking beacon
to track down the asset. All that they know about
the asset is that he is specifically 50 years old
and that he is to try to bring him back alive. Although, there does seem to
be a little bit of a dispute over the required alive-ness of the asset. You then spend the rest
of the episode trying to figure out, like, which
famous Star Wars character he's probably trying to hunt down. We then see him become a
proper space cowboy and then gun down an entire base of
guards with the help of a bounty droid, who, by the way,
was totally awesome, and probably one of my
personal favorite parts of, like, the whole first episode. - I must self destruct. - All before you finally find
out it is actually nobody that we know at all,
which is somehow cooler. Instead, it is a 50 year old
infant member of Yoda's race. As in Jedi Master Yoda, easily one of the most recognizable characters in all of Star Wars, and also possibly one of the most mysterious. We of course meet him for the first time way back in The Empire
Strikes Back, when the ghost of Obi-Wan Kenobi instructs
Luke to go find Yoda and train with him on Dagobah. But just because that
is where Luke finds him, it doesn't mean that that is
where Yoda is actually from. In fact where he is from and
his entire race of people is intentionally a mystery
in the Star Wars Universe. He's a mystery character.
He's a magical character. He has no background.
He comes and he goes. He's the subversive
secret mysterious stranger that enters the film and
then exits at the end. What is almost like unbelievable
about this sentiment though, is that to this
day it remains true. Yoda has of course returned
in many different capacities, but it still remains a complete mystery about his race, past, or home. And if your only experience
with the Star Wars Universe is the main episodes,
then this might not really seem that strange to you. But let me assure you that in
the vast Star Wars Universe, this is highly unusual. Thanks to all of the TV shows,
comics, books, and video games that are all considered
canon, the Star Wars Galaxy is considered to be one of the most explored fictional universes of them all. Is there an alien race
you saw walking around in the background somewhere at some bar? There's a planet for that. Are there other beings
like Darth Maul? Yup. Whole planet. What about
that weird elephant fly guy that sold Anakin? Yeah. Whole
planet. They have a king. How do banks work? And I'm
going to stop you right there. Yeah. There's a planet for that too. The point is even the most
minor of characters have had their entire world explored
in some way, shape or form. And yet Yoda, one of the
most popular characters of all time has nothing. He doesn't even have a name for his race. In fact, until the Mandalorian
dropped two days ago, there wasn't even another
sighting in the entire known Star Wars Universe, other than this one, right here, named Yaddle. What is so special about Yoda though, is his unprecedented ability
to use and interpret The Force. In this regard, he is
unparalleled by anyone, maybe in history, at least for
the Light Side of The Force. I think it's safe to say
that Palpatine's pretty savvy on the Dark Side. Here is where things
get interesting though. His species is super rare
or uncommon, and yet, the lone two that we have seen
are both on the Jedi Counsel. How does that even happen? What type of, like, cosmic
lottery is this race winning? And, don't worry, it gets better. If you dive into the deep,
deep, deep pool of information that is Star Wars Legends,
that Disney just, you know, kind of erased when they
bought Star Wars back when, you'd think in all of that information, you might find, like, a
little bit more information about Yoda or his species, but no. Instead, the exact opposite is true. It quite literally doubles
down on the mystery. Yoda and Yaddle are still there and there are at least
three other known members of the species in Legends. And guess what? All three of them are
super Force-sensitive, and wise, and all talk in
that weird, backwards way. - Do, or do not. There is no try. - The point is literally every
single member of this species that we know about in any
form of the Star Wars Universe is insanely powerful, which
brings us back to the asset. Or as I like to call it, little
young orphan darling asset, AKA Lil Yoda. I don't know if it's catching
on. Feels like it is. Yeah. I'm going to go ahead and say
that there is a 100% chance of Lil Yoda here being super force sensitive. I mean, for one, all of these guys must be guarding him for a reason. And two, the remnants
of the empire have put a baby bounty on him. And
I have a feeling it's not just because this guy wants to adopt him. But of course that brings us to the issue. Where could he have possibly come from? And you might be thinking,
"well, Ben, Yoda and Yaddle were both male and female members
of their respective species, so maybe that's where." And yet, no. What's so interesting about this particular species,
and especially the two that we know best is that
they are devout Jedi, meaning they would not have
had romantic relationships at all, strictly. It's kind of weird, but if every member of your species is a Jedi,
that's a really quick way to die out. And yet here's little Yoda. How did he come to be
and who are his parents? Well, my theory is little Yoda
doesn't have parents at all. Uhhhhhhh...So glad you asked! We know precious little about little Yoda except for one very important detail. He is 50 years old. - They said 50 years old. - And now you might just
brush that aside that it was intended to be a red
herring that was supposed to throw us off so that we
thought they were trying to track down someone much, much older. And while I agree, I definitely
think that was part of it, I also think it's a double
red herring to throw you off of the scent of what
happened exactly 50 years ago. The Mandalorian takes place
in 9 ABY, that means nine years after the Battle of Yavin, which I guess is how time
is determined in Star Wars. So 9 ABY minus 50 years
brings us to 41 BBY, 41 years before the Battle of Yavin. And that year is important
for one major reason. 41 BBY happens to be the
year that one Anakin, Darth Vader, Skywalker is also born. Do I have your attention now? Good, because as I'm sure you are aware the birth of Anakin himself is kind of shrouded in mystery. Or,
well, it was until recently. As far as his mother Shmee was concerned, he was just kind of a miracle. - There was no father. I
can't explain what happened. - And because he was just
so ridiculously powerful with The Force, I think
we all just sort of assume that The Force itself
was, in a way, his father. But then in Revenge of the
Sith, Palpatine explains to Anakin tale of Darth Plagueis, and his ability to create life. And from then on, theories
were basically rampant that Palpatine himself had actually
manipulated the force in order to create Anakin Skywalker. Then just last year in
the Darth Vader comic, those theories were confirmed to be true. Palpatine, indeed, created
Anakin Skywalker in 41 BBY, the same year little Yoda was born. Okay, but, "so what"
you might be thinking. Well, the "so what" actually
comes to us in the last Jedi, when Rey is confronting
Snoke and he explains - Darkness rises, and light to meet it. - The light rises to meet
the dark. Do you get it? I think what happened is
that Palpatine manipulated The Force in such a terrible
way that The Force itself responded in the creation of
what we will know as Lil Yoda, Darth Vader's literal
counterpoint on the Light Side. The Dark Side burned
really hot and really fast with Darth Vader, but I have a feeling The Light Side has a good
long runway ahead of them, unless what remains of the
empire can kill it as a baby. Enter the whole plot of the Mandalorian. Guys, for my question of
the day, what do you think? Do you think little Yoda
could have been created at the same time as Anakin Skywalker? And have you just seen The
Mandalorian yet? Do you love it? What are all of your thoughts? Let us know in the towel section down below. And again, guys, I just
wanted to remind you about the Super Carlin
Brothers Audio Book Club happening on December 12th at
7:00 PM Eastern standard time. This month, we are going to be reading The Lost Causes of Bleak Creek. All of the information to all of that is in the description down below. Guys as always, thanks for watching. Be sure to like this video, if you haven't already and subscribe so you don't miss any future
Star Wars action from us. If you'd like to see why
Yoda walks with a cane, you can check out this video right here. Or if you'd like to see how
Rey might actually go Dark, you can check out this video right here. But Jay, that's all I've
got for you today, man. I will see you on Tuesday. 