[MUSIC PLAYING] It's well-known that
after his defeat at the end of the third age,
the Dark Lord Sauron fled Mordor into the sky and traveled
about 25 light years towards the constellation
Piscis Austrinus. We still see his terrible
flaming eye gazing down at us, biding his time. The incredible Hubble
Space Telescope picture of the star Fomalhaut does
excite the imagination, doesn't it? Today I want to set
your mind at ease. This isn't really
the eye of Sauron. Probably. Fomalhaut is an A-type
star about twice as massive and much hotter and
brighter than the sun. At only 25 light
years away, it's the 18th brightest
star in the sky. But even as a non dark lord,
it's a fascinating object. Let's look at some pictures. That dot in the middle marks
the location of the star. But you can't actually see
Fomalhaut in this picture, because the mask was placed
directly in front of it before the picture. Such a mask is
called a coronagraph. And its purpose is to block
the bright light of Fomalhaut so that its fate surrounding
structures can be studied. The slitted pupil is the
shadow of that coronograph. Sadly it's not a real
part of the structure. But the surrounding
ring is very real. Fomalhaut itself is
brightest in the ultraviolet. To our eyes it twinkles
bluish white on the night sky. But the ring is brightest
in the infrared. Here are some infrared pics from
the Herschel Space Telescope and from Elma. In the virtual image, the star
doesn't even need to be masked. We're seeing the heat glow of
a giant ring of ice and dust 40 billion kilometers
in diameter. It's the remnant of Fomalhaut's
protoplanetary disk. The whirlpool of debris left
over after the star formed, and from which a planetary
system may now be forming. That makes Fomalhaut an
incredible laboratory for us to study our
own solar system and how it may have formed. Here's how we think that goes. Start with a dense core in
a giant molecular cloud. Cold and adrift, the
mostly hydrogen gas yields to gravity once it
reaches the critical Jeans mass. As the gas collapses, it
builds up heat and density until the pressure of the gas
dramatically slows collapse. And you have a hot protostar
surrounded by a great cloud of dust and gas. The protostar
continues to collapse more slowly until eventually the
core gets hot and dense enough to ignite in fusion. The star is born. And outflowing energy
resists any further collapse. Conservation of angular
momentum has the central star spinning rapidly. The surrounding
debris also rotates. And that rotation allows
it to resist falling towards the central axis. But gravity can still
pull the debris together in the up/down direction. So it flattens into a disk. Eventually, winds from the
newborn star in the center disperse this
extra gas and dust, revealing whatever
planets managed to form from the debris in that time. The formation of planets itself
is a fascinating process. The leading formation
model is core accretion, in which tiny granules are
drawn together and clumped by static electricity. They grow in size until
they're large enough that they can start
collecting more material through collisions. These collisions
must be very gentle, or else pieces will
shatter on impact. Eventually, the growing
rock has enough mass to attract material
through its own gravity. At this point,
it's a planetesimal at about a kilometer
in diameter. By the time it's at least
10% of the Earth's mass, it will have cleared its
orbit of other planetesimals, and will have rounded
out into a planet. Our own solar system
went through this process 4 and 1/2 billion years ago. And the solar wind
has long since dispersed what was left of
our own protoplanetary disk. This is believed to have
happened some tens of millions of years after the
sun first formed. Fomalhaut is a strange case. It's going through an
unusually long puberty. The star is 440
million years old. That's still very young. But it's surprising
that it's holding onto part of its protoplanetary
disk for so long. The Herschel and Alma
images show very clearly that the ring has sharp edges,
particularly that inner edge. The leading idea is that newly
formed planets carved out that ring with their gravity. Check out Saturn's F ring. Its clean lines are carved by
what we call shepherd moons. In Fomalhaut's case, it
may be shepherd planets, guiding the dust into
a well-defined tract. Just like Strider guiding a pack
of hobbits through the wild. Every grain of dust in
the Fomalhaut system is in orbit around the star. The closer an object
orbits to a given star, the faster it moves
through space. The farther out it orbits,
the slower it moves. Kepler's third
law tells us this. So a planet passing along
the inside of the dust ring overtakes each grain of dust
and tugs them gently forward. Infused with extra energy, that
dust orbit shifts outwards. A planet passing along the
outside of the dust ring pulls back on the dust. And that slows it down. Having lost energy,
that dust spirals closer towards the star. Pushed outwards and inwards
by the Shepherd planets, the dust ring boundaries
sharpen between them. But are there really
planets there? A wise man once said,
there is nothing like looking if you
want to find something. You certainly usually find
something if you look. But it's not always quite
the something you are after. In fact, it is very
possible that we've actually found the planet that carves
out the inner edge of that ring. Fomalhaut B shows up as a bright
orbital body in Hubble images. It's bright enough to be a
few times Jupiter's mass. However, it seems
to be completely invisible in the infrared. It may actually be a much
smaller planet, still wreathed in the dust of its formation. And the light that
Hubble is seeing is just reflected star
light from Fomalhaut. Or even cooler, it may be a
planet with a giant reflective ring system. If so, Fomalhaut really does
seem to have a thing for rings. Suspicious. By the way, Fomalhaut
B has a cooler name. It's Dagon, selected by the
International Astronomical Union from public submissions. Now we're mixing our
mythologies a bit. But I have a feeling that Dagon,
the evil Lovecraftian fish person demon god
thing, would have got along just fine with Sauron. Well, originally Dagon was
an ancient Semitic deity. But [INAUDIBLE] mythos
is so much more fun. In fact, the entire
planet may be a myth. Instead, it may be a
collection of debris left over from a recent collision. But the smart money is on
it being a real planet. Dagon's highly eccentric 1,700
earth year orbit is larger than Neptune's. That far out, there
shouldn't really have been enough resources
to build a planet even at the lower end of Dagon's mass
estimate, at around three earth masses. One possibility is that
it formed closer in. At some critical point,
it may have interacted with another massive
planet in the system, sending that planet
spiraling closer to Fomalhaut to become a so-called
hot Jupiter, while Dagon was flung way out. In fact, a similar model
may explain the locations of our four gas giant planets. Jupiter and its cousins may
have formed close together until a close
encounter destabilized the whole solar system
and flung the gas giants into their current, more
spread out positions. Fomalhaut gets even
more interesting. It actually has two
stellar companions, making it a rare
trinary star system. One companion is a red
wolf that may actually have its own protoplanetary disk. And that would make sense if
they formed at the same time. Stars typically form in
groups as very large clouds of molecular hydrogen
collapse and break apart into separate pieces. The stars don't always
stay in the same groups. For example, our
sun has long since left its birth siblings behind. But we're more likely to catch
loosely bound stellar systems early in their lives. By the way, the third
star in the system is a flare star,
violently fluctuating due to magnetic
storms on its surface. In fact, its exact type
is a BY Draconis variable. Smaug finally found his
way to Sauron's side. The fiery eye of Sauron,
wielding rings within rings. Was our solar system
once so Mordor-like? We're going to need
more observations to figure out
whether Fomalhaut is typical of stars in their youth,
or is actually truly unusual. We'll need to figure out
if this planet is real and what causes its
strange mismatch in visible and infrared light. Only then can we start
to use it to learn about our solar
system's early years. Lots of questions still. But one does not simply cease
questioning on space time. This episode is brought
to you by CuriosityStream, a subscription streaming service
that offers documentaries and nonfiction titles from some
of the world's best filmmakers, including exclusive originals. Brian Cox's Wonders of the Solar
System has an awesome episode-- Order Out of Chaos. It does a great job describing
the forces that shaped our own early solar system. Get unlimited access
starting at $2.99 a month. And for our audience, the first
two months are free if you sign up at
curiositystream.com/spacetime, and use the promo code Space
Time during the sign-up process. 