[♪ INTRO] In 1984, biologist Katharine Payne spent a
week observing elephants at a zoo in Oregon, and she noticed something strange. Every now and then, she could feel what she
described as a faint throbbing in the air, like silent
thunder. But it wasn’t thunder she was feeling- it was the elephants’ secret language. You might’ve heard elephants trumpeting
and grunting before, but those noises are just a fraction of the
sounds they actually produce. The rest are so low-pitched that our ears
can’t pick them up. Elephants do most of their chatting at these
low registers, and it actually has some pretty big advantages
for them. Months after Payne first heard the rumbles, she went back to the zoo and recorded the
elephants. When she and colleagues played the tapes back at high speed and higher pitch, they
could hear that the elephants were as noisy as a bunch
of cows on a farm! We humans can only hear frequencies between
about 20 hertz and 20,000 hertz. Sounds below that range are called infrasonic. And that infrasonic range is where most elephant
communication happens, between around 14 and 35 hertz. This secret banter isn’t just good for talking
about other animals behind their backs, though. Infrasound allows elephants to communicate over impressively long distances. Lower frequency sounds have longer wavelengths- imagine widely-spaced ripples instead of closely-spaced
ripples. And since they vibrate more slowly, they lose
energy more slowly, too, meaning they can travel
farther before fading out. On top of that, high-frequency sounds tend
to be blocked or absorbed by obstacles like trees, but low-frequency sound waves are larger than most barriers
in their path, so they can pass around them and keep going. So those high-pitched trumpeting noises elephants
make? Those tend to peter out after traveling around
100 meters. But infrasonic calls can travel much, much
farther. So Payne and other researchers started looking for evidence that elephants communicate over
long distances … and they found it! By tracking the movements of elephants with
radio collars, the researchers observed that family groups were able to spend days coordinating their
movements with each other, even when they were separated by as much as five kilometers. And when fertile female elephants belted out
their infrasonic mating calls, eager male elephants
as far as a kilometer out would start walking their
way! They can achieve this incredible long-distance communication in part because infrasound just
naturally travels far, and also because elephants are ridiculously
loud. The loudest recorded elephant calls are around
117 decibels— that’s about as loud as construction equipment
or a rock concert. Imagine being at a rock concert and not being
able to hear anything except maybe a faint rumble in the
air! Elephants also take advantage of environmental
factors, which can have a big impact on how far their
voices carry. In forests, their voices have to push through
the trees and compete with lots of other noises, so
they usually fade out in less than a kilometer. They tend to do a lot more talking at quieter
times of day, like early evening, when a forest elephant’s
voice might reach up to three kilometers. But out on the savanna, with fewer obstacles and less competing noise, the major limiting
factor is the atmosphere! During the day, the air over the ground is
warmer than the air higher up. Since sound travels faster through warmer
air, the bottom of the sound wave moves faster than the top of the sound wave, which causes
it to bend upward. So daytime sound waves only travel so far before turning away from the ground. But at night, the air near the ground cools
down much faster than the air above it. Now the temperature gradient flips, creating
what’s called a temperature inversion. And instead of bending upward, sound waves bend back toward the ground. The layer of cool air basically becomes a
channel that sound can travel through for much longer
distances. Around sunset and sunrise, when the temperature inversion is the strongest and the winds are
calmest, it’s been estimated that elephant calls could travel as far as 10 kilometers! And while observing elephants in the wild, researchers have seen that the animals will occasionally raise their ears and stand still to listen to the distant calls of other elephants. Studies have shown that the inner ear structures of elephants are extremely large, making them especially good at gathering low-energy infrasonic
sound waves. But they might not just be listening to each
other … they might also be listening to the sounds
of Mother Nature. Widespread legends in African and Indian cultures say that if you see an elephant after several
dry months, it means the rain is finally coming. And like a lot of folklore, it seems to have
some truth to it. See, rainstorms are very noisy, especially
at low frequencies, and there’s evidence that elephants might
be able to use their super-hearing to forecast the
weather. Research in the early 2000s tracked elephant
movements across the seasons and found that elephants
tend to exhibit different movement patterns in
wet conditions versus dry ones. When the dry season turns to the rainy season (or even when there’s a particularly rainy
day during the dry season) elephants tend to switch from short-distance
foraging to long-distance migration or vice versa. Exactly why they do this isn’t totally clear, but what is really interesting is that the
elephants usually changed their behavior days or weeks before the rains even reached them. It’s like the elephants could hear the storm
coming. In many cases, the researchers saw that elephants in different locations would simultaneously react to the same distant storm. In at least one instance, the animals responded to a storm nearly 300 kilometers away! So elephants are clearly tapped into a world
of sound that we’ve only recently started to appreciate. And in a world where scientists are desperately
trying to protect these majestic animals from extinction, their super-hearing may be key to understanding how they fit into their ecosystems. [♪ OUTRO] 