A while ago we shared the story of F.D.C. Willard, an ordinary housecat who ended up
co-authoring a widely cited science paper on low temperature physics. Today we’re talking about an equally impressive
Tabby called Larry who is, believe it or not, an official employee of the UK government-
originally appointed by then British Prime Minister, David Cameron, and continuing on
with his post through the present prime minister Boris Johnson. This is despite Johnson’s dog, a Jack Russel
puppy named Dilyn, and Larry’s less than enthusiastic response to this new flatmate,
with the 12 year old cat tweeting, “Confirmation that Downing Street is going to the dogs…” It’s also noteworthy here that Larry had
previously tweeted his aspirations to take the position of Prime Minister himself, caterwauling,
“I am announcing that I’m standing to become the next Prime Minister. If Boris Johnson is running, then people deserve
a serious candidate to… #LarryforPM #YesWeCat”
Losing out on the position of PM, Larry has nonetheless managed to hold on to his post
despite the power change. On that note, officially Larry’s full title
is “Chief Mouser to the Cabinet Office of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland” and his duties mainly involve keeping the famed residence of the Prime Minister
- 10 Downing Street - free of pests such as mice and rats. Larry is one of only a handful of cats in
British history to officially assume the role of Chief Mouser, though there have been many
other cats that have served essentially the same role over the years who did so without
the need for a fancy title or taxpayer money. The role of mouser supposedly dates back to
the reign of King Henry the 8th in the 16th century, more specifically his appointing
of Thomas Wolsey as Lord Chancellor in 1515. Wolsey was a noted cat lover and is said to
have had one at his side pretty much all of the time to such an extent that a recently
erected statue of him features a small cat. As such, it's believed one of Wolsey’s many
cats likely served as the first mouser for the government, official or otherwise. But as for the titled position, the records
only go back as far as 1929 when it was noted that the Treasury authorised a set sum of
money for "the maintenance of an efficient cat". And if you're wondering, it's typical for
such a cat to serve at Number 10 under multiple prime ministers. For instance, one Peter III served as Chief
Mouser from 1946-1964 under Prime Ministers Clement Attlee, Winston Churchill, Anthony
Eden, Harold Macmillan, and Alec Douglas-Home. Moving back to Larry, when David Cameron assumed
office in 2010, 10 Downing Street didn’t actually have a Chief Mouser as the previous
Mouser, Sybil, had been retired in 2009 supposedly because then Prime Minister, Gordon Brown,
didn’t like her. Initially, David Cameron resisted the idea
of hiring a replacement Chief Mouser, until rats were noticed scurrying around outside
of 10 Downing Street in several live news reports in early 2011. Though Cameron denied that any plans were
in place to appoint a Chief Mouser, internal sources revealed that there was a strong and
ever present “pro cat faction” in 10 Downing Street. Apparently this mysterious faction were able
to sway the Prime Minister because, despite his reservations, he and his family went to
Battersea Dogs and Cats Home in February of that year and adopted Larry Cameron, with
his tenure as Chief Mouser officially starting on February 15, 2011- nepotism, it seems,
knows no bounds. Needing to come up with a reason one of the
Cameron surname would get such a prestigious position over so many other thousands of felines
that had worked for years chasing rats and mice at various government offices (this is
actually a thing) without so much as a "good job" from Mr. Cameron, according to official
statements from the then Prime Minister’s team, Larry Cameron was hired because of his
time as a former stray which they claim gave him “a high chase-drive and hunting instinct”. They added that Larry had “a very strong
predatory drive”. Despite high praise of his ninja-like killer
instinct, Larry failed to make a kill until two months into his tenure, when he killed
a small mouse and dropped it at the feet of one of Cameron’s secretaries. His work ethic and skill came under further
scrutiny when anonymous sources revealed that Larry had been caught sleeping on the job
on multiple occasions and even once took a swing at a journalist. A year into his tenure a Downing Street, a
press officer urged people to remember that Larry’s job doesn’t just involve hunting
mice and rats, adding that his responsibilities also include “greeting guests to the house,
inspecting security defences and testing antique furniture for napping quality”. On that note, though he’s not a particularly
effective Chief Mouser, it has been noted that Larry is exceptionally talented at greeting
and entertaining guests, particularly children who seem to prefer his company to that of
the Prime Ministers that have passed through that office while Larry has reigned silently
in the background. That said, Larry has been noted to be slightly
averse to men, particularly when he hasn't met them, with the curious exception of former
United States President Barack Obama, who Larry warmed up to immediately upon their
first encounter. In contrast, Larry didn’t even bother to
get off his windowsill perch when President Trump visited, just gazing on from a distance
and then tweeting out about his refusal to be bothered shortly thereafter. Larry also once barred Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu from entering 10 Downing Street, and ultimately had to be shooed away,
literally, by a police officer so the minister could enter. Larry also attends various benefits and charity
events on behalf of the government in an official capacity. In regards to his more specific role of “contemplating
a solution to the mouse occupancy of the house”, the UK’s government website features the
only known official government quote from Larry (though, as alluded to, he does maintain
a twitter account for non-official correspondents), stating that his solution to this problem
is “in [the] tactical planning stage”. There have been no updates on the status of
this plan since- he's been in this position for almost a decade now… Despite his lacklustre work ethic and clearly
being appointed to a position just because he'd scratched the backs of those in power,
Larry captured the hearts of the people of Britain and has received many letters, treats
and gifts from admirers over the years. However, several years ago, Larry’s position
as Chief Mouser was put in jeopardy when a new, younger female cat called Freya was brought
into 10 Downing Street. Freya, who was presumed dead at just 6 months
old when she went missing from her home in Notting Hill in 2009, was found alive and
well over two years later and returned to her family- none other than the Chancellor
of the Exchequer George Osborne and his family (occupants of 11 Downing)- in 2012. She immediately began giving Larry a run for
his money. Along with being more proficient at killing
mice than Larry (no doubt due to being toughened up via her life on the streets for two years),
Freya was decidedly more politically inclined, preferring to spend her time in the restricted
areas of 10 Downing Street where secret military missions and other classified matters are
discussed. Larry, on the other hand, at the time mostly
just was noted to like to sleep on David Cameron’s suits in his personal bedroom. No doubt sleeping with the then boss helped
Larry keep his cushy government job, despite not actually getting any results to speak
of. For example, it was noted in one instance
that Larry even outright refused to move when David Cameron saw a mouse run across the floor
of his study. Cameron attempted to wake Larry to do his
job, but Larry just lay there, uninterested in chasing the rodent. On another occasion, the Prime Minister hurled
a piece of cutlery at a mouse during a dinner with his ministers when Larry was similarly
too busy napping to catch it; the mouse escaped unharmed. This led to rumors that the Prime Minister
and Larry did not see eye to eye, and perhaps that even Larry himself was on the take from
the RPUKGBNI (Rodent Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland),
who is known to also conduct much of their business at 10 Downing Street. As to the former accusation, a spokesman for
the Prime Minister denied there was any rift between Larry and David, releasing an official
statement that the pair got along "purr-fectly well". (This government spokesman is going places.) Nevertheless, Freya's results could not be
ignored forever and, shortly after her introduction to the household in 2012, reports were issued
stating that the two cats would “share” the job of Chief Mouser. This did not sit well with Larry and the cats
came to blows over the decision later that year (or perhaps Freya discovered the bribes
Larry purrrportedly was taking from the RPUKGBNI), forcing the police to step in and separate
them. According to eyewitness accounts, Freya was
the clear winner of the fight, no doubt again thanks to her experience from living on the
streets. Larry once again became the sole Chief Mouser
in 2014 when Freya was hit by a car. (An accident, or a Larry/RPUKGBNI collaboration?) Although she survived, at the cost of one
of her nine lives, her owner decided to send her to the countryside, claiming she wasn’t
cut out for city life... despite that she'd lived on the streets for over two years at
one point, leading some to speculate that the move was perhaps for her own protection. While there’s no evidence suggesting foul
play on Larry’s behalf, those in the know have indicated it can’t be fully ruled out. It should be noted here that Larry has had
occasional run-ins with the law, such as in 2015 when a police sniffer dog, Bailey, and
Larry got into a heated altercation over matters that were curiously not made public. Government cover-up? Perhaps a drug problem? (Larry has previously been found in possession
of Nepeta cataria, or as it's known on the streets, "the nip".) Since then, Larry has caused yet more controversy
by failing to protect 10 Downing Street from an errant heron and not being around to capture
a mouse that was later caught by the aforementioned Chancellor of the Exchequer and former owner
of Freya, George Osborne. This led to rumors that Osborne might usurp
Larry's position, as his pet had once done. No doubt out of fear of having his own little
automobile "accident", Osborne has never pursued the position despite his obvious skill. Curiously, despite the run-ins with the law,
obvious government cover-ups, now three different Prime Ministers passing through during his
tenure, and a complete lack of results, Larry's position- which comes with no salary, but
still somehow finds him able to afford his life in the lap of luxury- continues to remain,
further evidence of his collaboration with the RPUKGBNI. Speaking of the Lap of Luxury, were you aware
that at one point Howard Hughes bought an entire TV station, just so he could call them
up at any time and tell them what to play so he could watch what he wanted, when he
wanted? Bonus Fact:
Speaking of a cat running for Prime Minister, while Larry
may have missed his opportunity for power, a dog named Bosco Ramos, a black lab Rottweiler
mix, was genuinely elected mayor of an unincorporated census-designated place in California called
Sunol in 1981, serving in the role for 13 years until his death. How he got into the job in the first place
was simply that his owner thought the whole thing would be funny, so entered him in the
race under the platform "Dogs are People Too" and with campaign promises including, "A bone
in every dish, a cat in every tree, and a fire hydrant on every corner." Bosco was not only elected, but even ran against
two human beings, both of whom he beat in a landslide. The same can be said of Duke, a dog who became
the honorary mayor of a small town in Minnesota, winning by 9 votes in his election. It should be noted here that the town only
had 12 residents, meaning I guess he technical won by a landslide. Funny enough, the individual who ran against
Duke, one Richard Sherbrook, even claims he voted for the dog, rather than himself. Again, Duke’s position was ceremonial but,
the residents of the town were happy to have him as mayor, with Sherbrook describing the
idea of having a dog as mayor as “pretty cool”. However, just because nobody expects a canine
mayor to do anything, it doesn’t mean their terms in office aren't gleefully noted by
the local populace as if the animal did function as an actual, official mayor. Going to back to Bosco for a moment, while
he was in office, the doggy mayor would regularly meet with the citizens of Sunol, taking daily
strolls about the town to meet with his constituents. While serving as mayor, Bosco became something
of a celebrity, appearing on TV (earning $2,000 to his owner in one such appearance) and at
one point caused an international incident when Chinese newspapers widely reported on
his election as an example of the shortcomings of democracy and why it should be avoided. Bosco (literally) took all this in stride
and when the Tiananmen square incident happened in 1989, was invited to join protests organised
by students at Berkeley and Stanford in front of the Chinese embassy as an honored guest. His owner accepted the offer. Bosco also led the Halloween parade every
year and attended formal events wearing a doggy tuxedo. When he wasn’t being formal, Bosco was recognisable
due to his habit of wearing a red bandana. It wasn’t all smooth sailing for Bosco though
and his tenure wasn’t without controversy, one of the most infamous being his liaisons
with numerous female dogs while on the clock, resulting in numerous illegitimate pups being
sired. In addition, Bosco also went missing for a
week in 1987, turning up a week later with a stick in his mouth; he never revealed where
he went, so it’s assumed he was enjoying a raunchy rendezvous with a female dog. Bosco also frequently got caught being bribed
with ice cream and would act aggressively when people withheld his favourite treat,
beef jerky. After his death in 1994, the people of Sunol
paid tribute to Bosco by erecting a bronze bust of “the world’s first canine mayor”. Despite his well-known love of formal clothing,
the artist responsible for Bosco’s statue chose to depict him in his everyday attire. 