Hi. Yeah, I know what you're thinking, and   yeah, that is a human-pig
hybrid in there, and yes,   I am trying to return it to a top-secret
military experimental laboratory from   where it escaped. But the
question that you should be   asking is, how could this freak of nature
even exist? How do you make a human-pig?   This is Delta Bravo
requesting an immediate evac, over.   Mixing cells from different
species is nothing new. We've been   experimenting with making chimera
since the 60s. Why you ask? Well,   not so much for stuff like that. The
reasons are far less sinister.   Organs. In the US alone, one person is
  added to the organ transplant list 
every nine minutes with over a
  hundred thousand people already on 
that list, and sadly around 8,000
  people die because they didn't make 
it to the top of that list in time
  or the right organ just never became 
available. After all, you can't
  just use any old organ, they need 
to be disease-free and blood types
  of donor and transplantee need to 
be compatible, and donor organ
  recipients have to take immunosuppressant 
drugs to stop their immune
  systems from rejecting any new 
organ. Finding a way to mass-produce
  healthy patient-specific organs 
would be pretty good. Ethically
  speaking, lab-grown organs are 
probably the safest option, but cells
  have to survive in Petri dishes 
and be grown onto 3D printed
  biodegradable polymer scaffolds, 
which believe it or not, isn't as
  easy as it sounds, and fully fledged 
working organs are still a way
  off. The good news is though, that 
there might be a way to get around
  all this faff and let stupid helpless 
animals do all the work for us.
  Thank God for them. In 1981, a 
scientist at Cardiff University
  discovered the first stem cells in 
embryonic mice. These special cells
  have the ability to develop into 
any other cell in an animal, from
  muscle cells to brain cells and 
everything in between. Human cells
  possess the same ability and can 
develop into every single one of the
  220 odd cell types in our bodies, 
and it's for this reason that
  they're used to repair various damaged 
cells during cancer treatments.
  But the potential for these cells 
goes much further. In 2017,
  scientists at the Salk Institute in 
California made breakthroughs that
  gives us a hint at the weird 
and creepy future of organ
  transplantation. In one 
experiment, the team use CRISPR, a
  gene-editing tool to hack into 
mouse blastocysts, a structure
  containing cells that later form an 
embryo. There they deleted certain
  genes that the mice need to grow 
pancreases, the organ responsible for
  producing insulin, the hormone that 
controls blood sugar levels in all
  mammals. The scientists took those 
mice embryos and inserted rat stem
  cells which contained an intact 
pancreas gene. The modified embryos
  were then implanted into surrogate 
mouse mothers where they developed
  normally, except for the fact that 
each mouse was now growing a fully
  working rat pancreas. The success 
led the team to try and grow other
  rat organs inside of mice, including 
eyes and hearts. Incredibly, the
  rat stem cells even made a 
gallbladder, something that rats don't
  normally have. It showed that the 
developing mouse was able to unlock
  a gallbladder developmental program 
inside of the rat's cells that
  would normally be suppressed in rat's 
development. It highlighted the
  importance of the host environment, 
in this case, the mouse in
  controlling organ development and 
the evolutionary borders between
  species. Armed with the knowledge 
and insights that the team had
  gained from their experiments,   they decided to take the next leap;
growing human organs inside of an animal.   To make human-animal
xenotransplantation possible,   we can't just rely on rats and mice.
Growing organs that are the right size   for humans will obviously
require something bigger   and something with a more comparable
gestation period, and so, the team turned to pigs.   The plan in
  principle was simple. Take a bunch 
of human stem cells, stick them in
  some pig embryos, and hope to hell 
that things don't get too weird.
  However, it was anything but simple. 
Firstly, the team had to create a
  number of human-induced pluripotent 
stem cells or IPSCs. Unlike stem
  cells harvested from embryos or 
bone marrow, IPSCs originate from
  somatic cells. Somatic cells are the 
roughly 220 different cells that
  make up each of the different 
tissues in the human body. But using
  IPSC technology, they can be 
genetically reprogrammed to revert back
  to their stem cell state. Once they 
had these cells, they inserted
  them into pig embryos and implanted 
sows with those pig embryos,
  experimenting along the way with stem 
cells at different developmental
  stages to see what worked best, and 
after many, many tries, it worked.
  Some embryos showed that the human 
cells within were starting to
  specialize and turn into tissue 
precursors. Basically, these cells
  were doing things that shouldn't 
really happen outside of the human
  body. Trial and error and 1,500 pig 
embryos later, the team found that
  the most successful stem cells were 
those that were at the latter end
  of the cells' developmental process. 
In all, the team created 186
  later stage chimeric embryos that 
survived with an estimated 100,000
  cells in each one. Whether those 
embryos would have developed into
  healthy animals with working human 
organs is unknown as the team had
  to terminate each embryo four weeks 
due to ethical concerns. I mean,
  you wouldn't want those cells 
making their way into the brain and
  creating a pig with human-like 
consciousness, trapping the mind of a
  human inside the body of a pig. Like 
Donald Trump. Oh, no, wait. He's
  a pig's mind trapped in the body 
of a pig. Yeah. But science has a
  history of breaking through barriers 
and what at present might seem
  ethically sacred, may well one day 
feel like old school mentality.   It
seems that this shift in   ethics may already be happening. In 2019,
scientists in China inserted human   copies of the MCPH1 gene into
rhesus monkeys. MCPH1 is thought   to be an important gene expressed
during fetal brain development in   humans. By adding these genes to the
monkeys, the scientists hope to increase   the monkeys' cognitive
abilities in an effort to   study the evolutionary roots of
intelligence. The study indicated   that some neuron activity had been
altered and that the monkeys exhibited   better short-term memory.
However, the results are   unclear. But what is clear is that this will
unlikely be the last of these kind of experiments.   For example, human
monkey hybrid brains are   potentially extremely valuable for modeling
difficult brain diseases like alzheimer's.   But this is where we get
into uncharted and truly unethical   territory. Animal experimentation
is bad enough. But imagine the   horror of being an animal with even a
small amount of human self-awareness,   kept prisoner in a tiny cage,
being prodded and poked with needles   without the ability to vocalize
your suffering but with an   understanding of the torture that
approaches our own. But humanizing   animal brains aside, I do think
that it's likely that we'll see human   organs being grown in animals in
the not so distant future.   That has its own host of ethical and
logistical dilemmas.   The ethical issues are pretty obvious, but maybe
what's not so obvious are the logistical ones.   Such a massive medical
advancement like this that   increases the average natural human
lifetime is surely, only going to   increase the already widening
divides in our own society. With   so many people living longer, the
threat of overpopulation becomes   more real, putting even more strain
on our already strained planet's resources.   I'm basically starting to
think, this is a terrible idea.   This is Delta Bravo, do you read me?
Over. Delta Bravo, we read you. Do   you have the asset contained? Over.
I do, yes. The piggy is in the house   ready for evac. That's a negative
Delta Bravo, we will shoot on sight. Over. What?   No. No, by the hair
of my chiney chin, chin.   Come on piggy, it's time to go. The wolf's
coming, he's going to blow your house down,   and your brains out. Come
on piggy.   Come on. [Oink oink]   Surprise. David? Happy 50,000
subscribers. Thanks, but a card would   have been fine. Well, yes, I did
have one, but long story.   The chaps at the secret experimental
laboratory thought that this would be   much more fun. Yeah. You do know
they've been ordered to shoot you though?   Yes. It has got a little bit
out of hand rather but I think I know   how to clear this whole silly
mess up.   It's okay chaps, it's just me, 
it's been a whole mix up. He's
  got 50,000 subscribers.   Lost a good man. A good man.   How did it look?
Yeah. Yeah? Yeah. Nice one man. Action.   Too much? Just enough? It's
okay chaps, it's all been a big mix up,   it's just me. David, I
wouldn't mate.   Which would normally be 
suppressed. Is surely only
  going to increase the already 
widening society divide. Basically,
  these cells were doing some. The 
developing mouse was able to unlock a
  gallbladder developmental 
program inside of the rat stells.   Armed with
the insight.   Armed with the knowledge. You 
wouldn't want those cells
  making their way to the brain and risk   creating some kind of pig with
human-like consciousness.   Imagine that a pig trapped with a brain of a
cow with a horse poof on their face.   Really? Yes. Great to know
thanks, bye. We don't need that. Yeah,   that felt goo I should do one
more, it's only fair. 