Oktoberfest, that glorious time of year
where thousands of tourists descend upon
Munich Germany and make drunken fools of themselves while
wearing ill-fitted lederhosen, but not this year.. Yes, for only the 25th
time in 210 years Oktoberfest ist abgesagt,
cancelled. But I had no plan to go to Munich anyway so
it doesn't really put much of a damper on my plans. Instead i'm going to be
celebrating Oktoberfest here at home by making one of the festival's star
snacks, the pretzel. This time on Tasting History. The first Oktoberfest celebration was
held in 1810 to honor the marriage of Bavarian crown
Prince Ludwig to the Saxon Hildberghausen Princess
Theresa. That year the main event was a horse
race which became the reason for the yearly celebration,
but as time went on the focus shifted more toward food and beer
so much so that in 1896 what had been little scattered beer stalls
were replaced by massive beer halls. The beer then
and still today has to be brewed in Munich and has to live up
to the Reinheitsgebot or German beer Purity Law of 1516.
Now I don't know if mine lives up to the Reinheitsgebot but um
it's the Oktoberfest Märzen, Paulaner, yes!
Yes, standards that strictly adhere to the Reinheitsgebot using only four
ingredients water, hops, yeast, and malt for nearly 400 years. How's about that?
So you know I am Reinheitsgebot compliant even here
in California but regardless if your beer is Reinheitsgebot compliant or not
nothing will accompany it better than a pretzel, and that's what we're making
today. Now today's recipe comes from the 1581
Ein New Kochbuch, or A New Cookbook by Marx Rumpolt.
Kind of a misleading name now 440 years later but
I guess it was new when it came out. Anyway precedella:
take fair flour, egg yolk, and a little wine,
sugar and anise and make a dough with it. With clean hands roll it nicely long and
rounded and make little pretzels. Place in a warm
oven and bake, not burning it but until they are well dried so they are crisp
and good. You may or may not use cinnamon and it
is called precedella. Now this is going to be very
different from the traditional Bavarian pretzel that we're used to that would be
served at Oktoberfest today. First of all it's
not going to be soft and springy because it's not
leavened it's going to be probably more like a cookie or a biscuit
and crumbly. In fact the recipe even said that it should be
crisp after baking. Also it has some really interesting
ingredients like anise and cinnamon, if you want,
and wine. I mean that's just weird. Clearly I did not think this through
because I just opened this beer and now i'm about to open a bottle of wine as
well, and i'm going to have both to contend
with, but in the words of Heinrich Heine "I shan't complain". Now on with the recipe!
What you'll need is two and a half cups or 300 grams of
flour, four to five large egg yolks, one third cup or 80
milliliters of wine. Now the recipe doesn't specify what kind
of wine. I would probably steer away from a red wine,
i'd go with a white. I went with a riesling that's actually
it's not too too sweet but it is sweeter than most of your white wines,
so you know because it's supposed to be a sweet dish, but go with whatever you
want. Three quarters cup or 150 grams of sugar,
a half teaspoon ground aniseed, a half teaspoon ground cinnamon. (Now
that's optional according to the recipe). And a half
teaspoon of salt. Now some of you are probably saying "But
Max where is the lye?" and tis no lie there is no lye in this
pretzel. Now the pretzels that we think of today
and the ones that would actually be served at Oktoberfest
are called laugenbrezel, or lye pretzels, and that's because they're dipped
in a diluted but still caustic lye solution before being baked,
and that's what gives it the wonderful dark color and that sheen on the outside
as well as contributes to the taste, but for all that we know they haven't
changed in hundreds of years. It's a very
simple recipe and they they really haven't changed so
seeing as this is all about making historic foods and tasting something a
little different I figured if you want to see what a
laugenbrezel tasted like 200 years ago just go get one today,
so i'm going with a recipe from Mainz Germany just up the road,
like a hundred miles I think for the precedella or
the sweeter pretzels. So the first thing to do is preheat your oven to 350
degrees fahrenheit, or 180 degrees celsius,
then add your flour to a medium bowl and whisk in the aniseed,
cinnamon, and salt then in a separate bowl beat the eggs and
sugar until they're as pale as i am in the middle of winter. Then add in the
wine and mix until incorporated. Finally a third at a
time add in the dry ingredients and mix in
gently just until there are no streaks remaining.
At this point the dough should be fairly workable. Now if it's too sticky to
work with just add a little bit more flour, one tablespoon at a time,
until it becomes a consistency that you think you're going to be able to roll
into pretzels. Then with clean hands per the recipe's instructions
take a piece of dough and roll it out until it's a nice long rope.
Now the recipe is not specific in how thin to roll the dough but
I can tell you right now because we didn't work any gluten there's not going
to be a lot of stretch to this dough so it will break if you get it too thin
so just kind of play with it, but not too thin.
Once the dough is rolled out though it's time to shape your pretzels.
Again the recipe is not specific in how big the pretzels are going to be. It says
little pretzels but is it that big, who knows! You know a laugenbrezel can be
like this big so anything is smaller than that, but I
ended up making about six or seven. I think I made like six
decent sized pretzels with this simply because any thinner and my dough
broke. So take the rope of dough and form a
u-shape then cross one end over the other and give it one
more little twist then make sure the main part of the
pretzel is nice and round, then fold the twisted ends over and
press the tips down very gently. Then place it onto a lined
baking sheet and repeat. Now these pretzels are going
to turn out with a dull finish, and that's okay but if you
want to add an egg wash using egg yolk at this point
go right ahead. It'll give them a little bit of a sheen,
it just looks nicer and egg is already in the recipe so it's not going to
affect the flavor at all. Now once the precedella are shaped pop
them in the oven for 12 to 15 minutes while we look at the history of pretzels. So the story goes that in the year 610
an Italian monk was teaching little children
how to say their prayers for lent and when they would do well
he would give them a little treat. It was a piece of bread that he would roll,
and twist into the shape it was supposed to be the shape of the children's arms
folded over as if they were praying, and he called
them little rewards, or pratiola. Wonderful story, so sweet,
so nice so probably not true. First of all, while not impossible the
very specific date of 610 AD makes me a little dubious of this story
because in the 7th century monks were writing
down you know weddings of royalty, or the death of a king or chronicling a battle
but they weren't writing down the the creation of a bread product very often.
So that very specific date makes me a little dubious. Also
there are places in Southern France that claim the exact same story,
or something very similar and in Germany they claimed they made them,
and named them bracellus which means bracelet in Latin,
so yeah. And more recently historians believed that the twisted bread was
actually probably around as far back as when the Celts
were still in central Europe, and then the Catholic church in the Middle ages
just took them, and gave them a nice little
backstory. The medieval Catholic church taking pagan things, and converting them
to fit into Christianity? Doesn't seem like something they would
have done, but I suppose it's possible, but regardless of where pretzels got
their start we do know that they were quite popular
in and around modern day Germany by the 12th century
where in 1111 they began to appear on the emblems of Baker's guilds.
Then in 1185 we have the earliest depiction of the knotted baked good
in an Alsatian encyclopedia called the Hortus Deliciarum or Garden of Delights.
A document more notable for being the first encyclopedia compiled
by a woman, Herrad of Landsberg. What's interesting to me is the rather
anachronistic placement of the pretzel in Herrad's work where
it's sitting on queen Esther's dinner table
from the bible. And while this may be the bread's first official link to religious
symbolism, it is just the beginning of pretzels
getting all knotted up with Christianity. See while there is no
direct evidence for that lovely monk-making pretzel story we do know
that by the Middle ages pretzels had become very popular as a
lenten food or a food served during lent because they
were so simple. It was just flour, salt, water and
sometimes yeast and sometimes not. It was a perfect dish for those 40 days
of fasting before Easter. Additionally the fact that
its distinct shape left three holes in one pretzel made for an
easy way for the Medieval church to describe that holy trinity which they
were always having trouble explaining to people. Most
famously St Patrick likened it to the three leaves on a single clover.
Though I think that I prefer the pretzel analogy, and it seems that the Catholic
church was actually a really good publicist for pretzels
because other than giving them a really cool origin story
they also began splashing them all over the pages
of prayer books where Saint Bartholomew was often depicted surrounded
by a wreath of pretzels. Saint or no that man
loved his carbs. And it's probably those religious tie-ins that helped pretzels
make their way into the holiday traditions of many
German-speaking countries at Christmas people would dangle them
from their tenenbaum like tasteful ornaments,
and then at New Year's children would hang them around their necks as a good
luck charm, something that's still practiced in
parts of Germany today. And by Easter parents were hiding pretzels in and
around the house kind of as a sort of pre-Easter egg hunt tradition, and
frankly I think I would prefer pretzels to hard-boiled eggs, though I do
wonder if they were trying to use the same pretzels for all three holidays,
because I don't really think those Christmas
pretzels are gonna make it to Easter. But it wasn't
all fun and games for pretzels. They played their part in some very serious
historical events as well. Namely in 1529 when the city of Vienna,
Austria was under siege by the Ottomans led by Suleiman
the Magnificent. So the story goes that the Ottomans were digging tunnels to
undermine the city's walls but some monks who were in the basement
of their monastery baking pretzels heard the scratching of the pickaxes.
They raised the alarm and alerted the famous Imperial landsecuconnect
who stoppedthe enemy before they could break through,
saving the city. And as a reward the pretzel-baking monks were given an
official coat of arms by the Habsburg emperor
Charles V. Wonderful story, but also probably not true but I don't
really mind that because while it's probably not true it's
surrounded by true events, and that's one thing that I love about
these little stories in history. I go searching for pretzel
history, and instead I spend four hours learning
about the Siege of Vienna which I didn't know that much about,
and I love that I can just kind of fall down these little
historical rabbit holes, and that is why have an exact year for pretzel's debut
in the New World but it was probably around the year 1700
when an influx of German immigrants came in to settle Pennsylvania.
But pretzels basically stayed the same until 1861
when they got a new twist. Julius Sturgis in Lititz, Pennsylvania opened America's
first commercial pretzel bakery. Soon after he developed the American
hard pretzel, and they were great because they lasted
a lot longer and he could ship them further away. Now many people give
him full credit for having the first hard pretzel, but
as we've seen in our recipe today that is not quite so,
because our pretzel should be nice and crisp and about ready to take out of the
oven. So start checking your pretzels around
12 minutes but it might take a little bit longer,
you just want to have them kind of dried out on top and
browning just a little bit around the edges. Then take them out and set them on a wire rack to cool. And here we are our 16th century bretzel
precedella. So yeah here it is, it's lovely.
Ii actually ended up doing the egg wash on some and not on others. I
definitely like the egg wash. I also sprinkled a little extra cinnamon
on top just because it looked good, and why not? 
I'd say that's crispy, let's give it a shot.
They're also kind of crumbly though so...mhm, mhm, mhm... These pretzels are making me thirsty.
Seinfeld shout out for anyone who watches Seinfeld.
All right, so full transparency here i'm not really a fan.
Namely because they have aniseed in them.
I don't like aniseed so why would I think I would be a fan,
I need a lot more sugar. I just don't like that that flavor all that much,
and it's not like overwhelmingly anise flavored. They're, just there's that
flavor and I just don't really, really care for that.
The texture is interesting, it's almost like,
almost like shortbread except a little softer.
Like they they don't crumble quite as much as shortbread,
but the texture actually I don't mind though they did make me thirsty, legitimately. I do think that if I was going to make these I would
just leave out the aniseed and put maybe some extra sugar, and maybe
ginger in them, and then they would be delicious.
So you know I think that you can play around, and
you know do some different flavors but other than the shape
of a pretzel there's nothing about this that screams pretzel in
flavor, but if you think about like those dutch butter cookies they're in
pretzel shape there's nothing about that that says pretzel other than shape
either so really it's just the shape, and that's okay
because it was fun to to make it. I learned how to do that.
I'd never done it before and it wasn't as hard as i thought it would be.
Anyway regardless of what you're doing for Oktoberfest I hope that you have a
beer, have a pretzel, or just enjoy Oktoberfest however you like and I will
see you next time on Tasting History. 