Good morning gamers. It's time for another episode of Minecraft. Is anyone surprised, is anyone surprised? Today we're gonna have a fun day aren't we, Jeb? Oh, you- now you don't look at me. Wake up Jeb, Wake up There you are. Now, you know, we're gonna have fun today That's right. We're gonna build you a new home, aren't you excited? **HITS BELL AGGRESSIVELY** Ignore that for now. I need to find Sven... Where is he... There you are Sven!! Today, very special day for Sven Sven, my favorite dog Let's- I want to show you guys. I finished the house. It looks pretty epic. Sven, hasn't seen it either He has a blindfold on. I'm gonna remove it. Right? What are you doing? What are you doing? Can I ride-? Oh my god. Oh, (chuckles) OH AH I'M KILLING HIM How?? What happened? AH So here we are this is the house, Sven. Come on, come in, come in let me show you Here, I have bone. You tell me you can't get up there? (Subtitle by *I am HeRe *in description at bottom) Why does everything have to be so hard? There we go, thank you. We released Virgin turtle from his prison. Can you please get up? All right, he'll teleport anyway, this is the house. It's pretty epic You enter here, secret door and then here you have Bing bong Bing bong Beautiful backyard. It lits up with lanterns in the in the summer and then we have all of the storage Tucked away nice in the floor. We have storage here so much storage very epic Um, bed is here and you can jump on bed if you feel like. And the best- The best part about this Sven, please get up Oh. He's sitting that's why. Sorry. You know the best part about this is that you guys have been telling me. I should build a doghouse for Sven and- This is my reveal Sven. This is your house. That's right. I built this for you, Sven! I know you love anime and stuff So I built it- a Japanese house for you You're welcome Okay, have- Bye. Bye. Have fun Sven It's time for me to build something for water sheep That I don't want Sven to see A creeper blew up my farm and all my chickens disappeared by the way. I know, F's in the chat So let's use our mind here. How can we...? Make water sheep understand that we don't like him I know there's like pistons, but I never really used these like redstone stuff. Oh my god. Look he's talking to spider!!! I knew he was evil. WHAT WERE YOU TALKING ABOUT THERE?!?!?! wait Lemme get some cobblestone So how does this work..? And I'll just place it here No, wait, that won't work.. Oh god.. Ohhh this is disgusting! I have to enter, Water Sheeps cage eeeewwwwwww Ewwww oh, this is so nasty here. Oh my god. How do you live here? This is terrible. How do I get out? All right. You better not escape. You better not escape. There will be pain. This is the worst day of your life water sheep Okay, wait, so do I literally just- can you frick off?!?! WAIT the water's not coming in!! water sheep head needs water to survive!!! Oh my God You like this water sheep?!! good because you're not supposed to >:) You look at Sven. This is what happens Think about it. Was it worth it? WAS IT WORTH IT? You did this by the way! You did this. What if I What if I add another piston so he gets squeezed from many angles I like that. Wood, redstone and iron. Okay, let's make three Can we give *chuckle* can we give water sheep like a bad potion? Potion of harming? I don't care about your excuses It wasn't me. It was Gloria Borger. It doesn't matter Gloria Borger isn't real. Everyone knows that enough with the lies! So stop lying if you stop lying. Then maybe I would reconsider being a little less aggressive Don't you dare escape there is no escape don't even think for a second that you are safe because you are not just Cuz I'm next to you doesn't mean I want to hold you and tell you it's alright It means I don't like you. water sheep, more like piece of shit. This is gonna hurt. I'm not gonna lie This is gonna be ex- this will be extremely painful for water shape Back at UH what sheepish eye All right, so I need to connect these right See, I'm uh, I'm a Minecraft veteran. So I know I know the ins and outs So are these all- did I break it what happened? Oh It pushes away its own redstone when I use it like oh No it broke It can't be too fast. No one's ever done this Don't try and escape now, water sheep!! Look at him I don't care! >:( You mean nothing to me I wish you were just quiet and took it like at least like a sheep, oh, sorry Oh, sorry so I actually did I Can I not put redstone on ceilings? What is this? Oh. *victory sounds* All right, I like that I like that ah, Water sheep! you did this, you did this you did this. Oh my god, how dare you? Oh, I'm gonna we're gonna go harder now We're gonna go I'm- I was holding back before because I pitied you but now Can we add like spikes on the, on the piston Why would I put on a piston to really hurt someone you can make sticky pistons right? Let me do that instead I know this this sucks, but I gotta- I gotta get back my slime ball from my trampoline Hopefully I can make it into slime ball. Yeah, I can. All right, and then you better not go anywhere Stupid sheep. Oh, I know Your friends aren't here to save you if we place This here. He's escaping. Go back in go back in go back in there. There will be serious consequences There you go. All right, so now can we put this on top here? Nope? Damn it Are you kidding me? Come on Go on dude, let me do it. Maybe it's one of those where it goes in that direction. You're facing. No All right. Well, I guess we can keep we can keep that here just to make him scared. Oh, I know exactly what block we can put on sticky piston this one because she should actually damage them, right? *pewds laughing like maniac* Oh. Why am I laughing? *chuckle* Ok, oh oh okay okay okay Hey, w a t e r s h e e p. Time for pain. Oh! actually works! *pewds realizing his grave mistake* RIP Water sheep :( Oh Water sheep *crying sounds* Noooooo Ahhhhhhhh Noooooo... It was just supposed oh, oh I can't believe it Water sheep was like a father to me. All right. We need a new water sheep. I Need a new water sheep new volunt- Are you coming with me? Oh My god Hey, what are you trying to escape to you're water sheep now. You should be proud, say goodbye to your family That's right. You'll never see them again. Oh look Look how well accustomed you are to water. Huh? Don't worry. You'll still plenty more water where we going. Come here. Come here That's right. Say goodbye to your friends Oh, he actually did it :( This is your new- [laughter] This is your new home now That's right What their sheep number two? If I can't even call you I get it fine. I'll remove it. I'll remove it. I'll remove it. It's fine. It's fine. It's fine It's okay. It's okay. It's Okay, okay we're just gonna Nothing bad is gonna happen Nothing bad is gonna happen and that's a PewDiePie promise. Nothing bad is gonna happen. Don't worry Oh, look who made it in? Yes. Yes. Yes nothing bad is gonna happen to you my little sheep Just get in there. That's right. Yes Yeah, it's nothing bad. Don't worry. Don't worry Water sheep used to love this Bell :( Oh God I miss him so much Welcome to hell this is your new life This is how you live life now All right, we gotta invent something new you just stayed right there motor sheep You know, it's an honor and a privilege to be Watership tonight Should be thankful You should be thankful water shit. This is what your forefathers wanted for you, you know Follow me. I said follow me. I know you're scared. I know that you're scared, but It will all be over very soon. Ah, this is water sheep's fault! oh God you piss me freaky. Be quiet. No one literally asked Now jump Sorry, I'll put you down I'll put you down NOOOO! Water sheep was like a father to me I can't believe... Not water sheep Water I was trying to make him bounce in the water. I wasn't actually trying to get rid of it What was making him do damage? Have any of any more water we need to improve the model one day we live in a society Where all water sheeps can live together and be happy Unfortunately, this is not our society. All right, who's the next tribute if it isn't chicken sheep, huh? Come with me come with me chicken sheep. You will pay for what your ancestors For the crimes of your ancestors. I don't like you by the way, I don't like you don't look at me like that That's right. Come with me Thank you for your cooperation Just keep moving and don't ask any questions. You got that You got that there will be bone Okay now oh We caught him wait Stop that stop that That's illegal Illegal move. There you go. Now if we put a piston Here may be chipped if you touch it you tip, okay, let's see. Alright she came When it goes through wait, okay, maybe I need to put the famous the famous block of justice. No That is not what I wanted to do cut diamond pickaxe too strong man, maybe I should have finished a machinery before I Put in the subject He's escaped. Oh no, no Chicken Chicken sheep was like a father to me. I loved him What the cow, why are you not in water? Why are you not in water? That's what I thought. Xорошо (good in Russian), хорошо. Say goodbye to your friends Okay, actually I gotta take a nap I'll be right back. Oh This is perfect. See I realized why I haven't gotten the the finer experience of water sheep It's because they're not looking like water sheep. There you go. This is how what the ship used to look like I mean, this is water she all right come in So maybe the problem is I put it one too high and any day I'm so sorry mr. Sheep. Oh my god You're annoying me now. You're annoying me. I'm pulling you out Trying to save your life here. Where's my thanks. I mean, I don't ask for a medal or anything don't jump Idiot, there you go. Have fun. Have fun. Jump. Okay, this is the This is what I wanted to happen. I wasn't actually try. I just want to him to be forever bouncing Wait, he ruined my machinery why my a machinery not function? He took out electricity. Oh it work. So this is what I like. This is what I want. No one likes you water sheep Literally no one we did a survey and it came out that no one liked you. How did that make you feel? No Why it not work it's perfect Water sheep has to be in water but what block can I put to make him software but not Go bye-bye. You know what? I mean? Maybe I've been doing this wrong right? I'm trying to get to the bottom of water sheep by targeting water sheep But in reality water sheep has many many friends. There's many many cousins and things like that maybe This is crazy. I know this is crazy. Okay, come with me. Don't worry. We're not gonna hurt you. We're just gonna talk We're just gonna talk. We're just gonna talk. Don't worry. Don't worry. I'll take care of him. I'll take care of him Hey, water sheep! I Brought your friend, huh? You recognize him your cousin. Oh, you don't recognize him. Well, how about now? That's right water sheep. I know who your loved ones are And I'm not afraid I'm not afraid I'm not afraid To push them to the limit to get what I want. That's right. Ooh, is it getting hot in here? Is it me water sheep now? Tell me Who do you work for? Huh? Who said you? Oh, wow. It's really really getting hot and spicy in the air What do you work for? Ooooh It's getting really hot. Just one more spot left for your little friend. Now. Let's change water sheep Last chance, who do you work for? fine You are one tough cookie to crack water sheep I give you that I'll get through to you one day water sheep All right, so I'm building a I'm building a giant a giant meatball For those who wants to know that's what I'm doing I want to craft a God, it hurts. It hurts to spend these beautiful diamonds But I want to craft a diamond sword that I want to That's sexy. Gosh, it would suck to die When you have all this good stuff. I Want to enchant it knock back one sharpness. That's surely better. Right and then we're gonna bring some We're gonna bring our doors because we're gonna go back to the water temple Apparently there's loot that I didn't get there and there's like a boss even I like bosses And now we also have potion of underwater breathing. I'll bring two of those and then we have portion of night vision I'll bring two of those as well and then we need the milk you remove The debuff. Hey, both cow. Let me let me get some of that sweet Num-num them do it. It takes so good. Thank you. What the cow Oh What the cow you think so good I Can drink you all day water cow you however Will stay there. I think it makes sense to bring out the dinner boat Because he can actually ride underwater. How cool is that? Stop tickling me Stop tickling my blade. Hey, maybe I should have the aqua infinity helmet as well Maybe even my Trident that might be epic God if I die, I'm gonna be so pissed. Are you ready? My head is stuck in the ground get me out, please. Okay. Sorry. I think I actually just remember where it is I don't need the actual map. Okay. So once the giant meatball monument is Rebuilt. That's the one we know that there will be peace on earth. Once the giant meatball is completed There will be glory and sunshine to everyone isn't right, right Undead Jorgen. I Like that name undead Jorgen the normal Jor- ow sorry about that undead Jorgen, how does this look like on like? Another oh my god. This is amazing Swedish Viking heading out on his fellow on Swedish God So, let's see here I don't think it actually shows you how long the potion lasts so I'm just gonna have to put a timer. Hey, Google Put an 8 minute timer, so now we should drink our potions portion of night vision and potion of underwater breathing ~Slurp~ Did I drink it And then water There you go Ok now whoa It's so bright now. Ok. We got eight minutes. Let's let's ride So the temple should be here somewhere. Don't mind me. It's a Swedish man riding his horse underwater That's, right All right, I really should have brought the match tonight, whoa, it's so cool I never like done proper underwater stuff Where is this water temple? We meet at last All right, so I'm gonna put I'm gonna put the water No, I he fly away so I think if I wear this it actually makes it so I can still yeah, that's it I can still dig quite quickly. All right. There you go. I don't want to lose dinner bone. Let's swim gamers. Oh They found me keep swimming keep swimming. I'll go underneath day much better. There's a boat in front of it. What Oh, God alright, we'll have to explore another time. Yes. Ok. So here we are. We haven't got the debuff yet. So when you enter the Place it will give you like a debuff that says you cannot peepee poo-poo. Alright, you can't dig but since I can I might as well grab these. These are quite valuable.Begone! There's the debuff it disappears once you oh my god There's the Guardian we found it Oh God Oh God. Okay. That's the Guardian now. Let's take out these first. I Don't like you. Oh, there's Guardian is shooting me issue to me This avoid eye contact Felix Just like real life avoid eye contact Like a proper Swedish person These are really annoying to take out. I'm not gonna lie. Just go for the Guardian then Where's the Guardian go? Oh my god, I take damage by hitting the Guardian Uh oh, Uh oh, think of Sven you got to do this for Sven man and very good. Oh, I'm eating what's happening Whoa. Whoa. Whoa No Swim away, AHHHH Whew whoa FINE Okay, the arrows shoot so short I can take this guy out No, I cant How much help does this guy have? I'm hitting him but nothing's happening. Oh god, it's been eight minutes already. Oh Alright, alright, we'll drink milk And then I have to quickly drink water of water beep Hey Google put alarm eight minutes Yes, I got him He dropped a sponge. Alright this back I'm stuck Like what's happening? Okay, I got him I got him again so you can use sponges to like remove water and stop Apparently I'm supposed to go to like the building. There you go secret. No, here's the sponges. Perfect We just got to drink it. Oh god, we got to drink the milk to won't mind that I can't find the way out I'm lost and I'm pretty sure it's close to eight minutes. Not good Okay, four fish made it in here. We must be close to the exit There's the sponges. Okay. I missed him last night Where's the frickin exit???? Can't find the exit Panic mode oh Yes, I found the exit whoa Whoa, whoa. Whoa. All right guys, let's calm down. I Got it. We gotta really quickly And I'm talking fast Look at him Look at him. I'm sorry. I Have the debuff. Oh He needs to jump out. Oh God, we got a swim fast. Okay, I got to make more potions I thought two would be well enough my god I have okay, I have two already This sucks. Okay. I have three of them It's this your friend underwater sheep, I'm sorry. I'm so Why is it not dying Yeah Why oh No I'm sorry God. Uh, I had to do it. I Had to make underwater potion breathing. Okay, he's still there. Great Excellent, I'll be right back undead Jorgen. I'm sorry, we get instead of business Okay, let me see if I can just mine my way through the top. Bye you foul scum. Gamer Juice! For G- Fuel! Alright, yes got'em There's one more hidden how they all respawn Ugh, I keep getting Stuck. I need to mark. Like, find a way to mark. I know where not to go. There. Found the last one. Yes. Okay. That's gonna be tough. Yeah. FOR JORGEN! I'm actually really nervous. I really need to do this. Ooh. Oh, oh, I got one. Oh God, oh god. Oh God I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm dead. No no now Tell me I saved one at least I Did save one I'm going in the dolphin's is by my side Let's frickin go this gamer is out for blood. Oh my god. Oh my god No Gamer says no It's not here. I remember All right, I'm gonna review the footage cuz I'm a cheater. Okay. I know where it is It's up here, it's up here gamers No, yes it is it is, I can't move!! you're not going anywhere mister puff-puff Okay, we have potion of water breathing. I am FRICKING AROUND Yes, I really need to hit him one more time. Are you kidding me? Oh, no, not again. I'm stuck, I'm stuck, I'M STUCK Why does he stop, I wasn't even recording?! I'm shaking I'm so pissed. I kept getting stuck. Ah, ah I'm so mad. I'm so man. Stop swimming. Oh Great just died. Cool Cool, this is awesome. I am I Brought all my nether quartz with me. Apparently, I brought all my other ones with me doors. I need doors nothing but doors Twenty-one savage no 21 doors. Let's freaking go and I need you're against murder. Let's fricking go One more hit and so man if the game didn't just make me stuck randomly that would have been great God damn So annoying, do they make me stuck or is it was it the game? I'm so mad Wait here Joergen What the Frick is that? Did it salesman seriously spawn on top of this? And is glitched out here go doors doors doors doors The power of doors, okay, I found it. It's up here. Oh god don't get stuck Damn, they do so much damage. You're kidding me. I'm dead. Here it is. Door Get the stuff and bounce. All right Oh Mending goes are the best pants in the game. Look, this is how I got stuck. This is how I got suck Suck suck Okay, we got our stuff back. It's all that matters Now we can mine these Am I supposed to use a diamond pickaxe or is it a shovel? Sorry spongebob? But I need your body to nourish me now. We can mine anything from oh Whatever see now, we can just mine our way out Frick this. Look at this, dude What are you doing here? Why do you have to spawn here out of all places? What does he sell? Garbage you're trash. Let's go First bosses in Minecraft killed even though last one wasn't on camera. I did it, okay I might regret this Why do I get stuck aah I'm furious now. I'm furious. Why does he do that? If I can just swim it's fine. I Don't get it. I had to go and get another thing. Why did I do that? cool It's just the name of the fucking game at this point. Why am I stuck all the time getting my stuff back? I don't care How many doors I gotta go through Okay, I just need my diamond pickaxe, oh I got it Oh, See the reason why I came back was because obviously The other ones floated to the roof oh God, not again. Get the boat. Get the boat. Get the boat. Get the boat. Get the boat. Oh No, no, no the wrong way. Oh my God, look at him How am I supposed to get him back did you have fun I Need you to get in the boat, sir. Oh my god That is not them. All right, let's do this quick swim up up up It's not too far. Oh my God. Where did you go keep sliding? What is with all my pets and underwater are you kidding me there's a freaking ravine there you're again. Oh God, we lost up We lost upside down undead Joergen We're gonna have to come back for him. Oh my god. I'm still so mad. And you know what I've had enough with you You were the cause of all of this weren't you? More Joe no more games. No more play Frick let it go. Oh he's dying. He's dying, don't let him die He needs water to survive, huh You're pathetic you're pathetic and you disgust me I'm gonna give you one chance to surrender tell me who you're working for Wrong answer oh My god no, no Sorry I'm sorry, you had to see that. All right. All right gamers. It's been a long day With a lot of adventures. Hey Sven How was it? You had a great day. Oh That's awesome. I'm so happy for you here have some chicken How was my day? Well, it's good now Sven,  it's good now. Good night gamers 