- That one's coming right at us. - [Man] This one's
coming right at us man - Right there, right
there, right there. Oh wow, we got orcas right here. - [Man] There's the breach - Wow (serene music) - Killer whale. Black fish. Orca. No matter how you
address this animal, it's name commands respect. My entire life I have
had a fascination with this majestic creature and I would often picture myself one day having the chance
to see them in the wild. This is my account to
that vision take and shake and coming true. Alright guys, this is it. The moment that we've
been waiting for. The gears loaded up,
it's time to hop onboard and head out on the water
to search for orcas. Hop on. - Alright. Here we go. - Cool, let's head on out. - [Man] Let's do
it. We launching? Oh wow, that fast huh. - We're launching. Oh yeah. - [Man] Here we go. - We gotta find the whales. - [Man] He said they're
fast and they're far away, so we got to get to them. - So, how far are we going? - [Beau] We're going away as
we come close to 40 miles. - Alright, Papa Beau says we're
heading out about 40 miles to search for the orcas. Now you may notice that the
entire crew is wearing red caps, that's because they love
the Wes Anderson movie, Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou, which is also one of
my favorite movies. So, today we got kinda
team Zissou here. This is Papa Beau, our captain. Say hi Beau. - Welcome aboard. - We got Jason back here. He's gonna be rowing my kayak. - Yes indeed. - [Coyote] That's
my main man Bobby. He's gonna be
kayaking Mark around. - [Mark] Yeah. - Yeah. Give me high five. - We can do this buddy. (laughing) - Today, we are heading
out on to the Salish Sea, an intricate network
of coastal waterways that includes the South Western
portion of British Columbia and the North Western
portion of the United States. (exciting music) With the sun casting a
beautiful glow across the water, we motored north into
the straight of Georgia as we search for a
calm stretch of sea to safely launch our kayaks. (mumbles) - [Man] Here we go. - Alright, so we're
motoring out of this area. You can see we're surrounded by all sorts of really
dangerous current. This could be a good
area to look for orcas, however we cannot bring the
kayaks into water like this. Captain Beau tells me that this
will literally suck you down about 100 feet into the water
and will kill you instantly. So, we're gonna motor out
of this and keep searching. (exciting music) It took some time but
we finally found a spot where Captain Beau
felt comfortable setting us out onto the ocean. Alright Beau, so we need
a brief explanation. This is the first time that
we've gone into the water with the top marine
predator that's out there. Now, we know that a killer
what has never attacked a human but safety first is
always a protocol, plus we need to respect distance that we get from these whales. So, explain to us a little bit exactly what we should
be doing out there. - Sure thing, but we're
gonna be launching you here from Blackfish our
mothership today and send you guys out with
trained guides Bobby and Jason. And they're gonna be leading
you out into this area where we have some
really good intel about presence of killer whales. We really want to respect
their environment. We're going into an area where they're known to
feed for large king salmon. And we're just going
to set you guys loose, see what you can find. I'm confident that
we can probably find an encounter here today cause there's report of 30
to 40 animals in the region. When we encounter them, we're just gonna
really be respectful of what they're doing,
what's going on. They have a hard job out here
finding fish in the big ocean, so we're gonna get out
there see what we see. And really enjoy
whales in the wild. - Alright, sounds great. Well, I am ready. - Let's pat. - Let's get those
kayaks into the water. You guys ready? - Yeah. - Really good luck guys. - Alright. - Let's do it. - I can feel my
heart rate increasing as I step from the Blackfish
and down into my kayak. This was it. No turning back now. - I'm in. Alright you ready? - Let's do it. - With cameras in hand, Mark and I were poised to
get the best shots we could, that is if we were lucky
enough to come upon any whales. Alright guys, we
are on the water and it's time to
begin our search. Jason you ready? - [Jason] Yes, I am. - Thumbs up. Mark, you good? - [Mark] Let's go. - Alright, let's do this. As we set out on the water,
we paddled with purpose hoping that maybe, just
maybe off in the distance we would catch the glimpse
of a black dorsal fin breaching the water surface, as one of these
magnificent predators came up for a breath of air then disappeared back
into the unknown. Guys, you're pretty
smooth rowing. I thought it would be a
little rougher than this. I mean, these little chops
aren't too bad to deal with. Are they? - No, it's good paddling
conditions out here right now. - Coyote, do you see anything? (mumbles) - We steadily paddled
north toward Canada. And while it seemed like
radioing back to the Blackfish for pick up was a
wise thing to do, we decided to keep going. It was this very
choice that placed us on a watery road toward fate, an animal encounter that
we would never forget. Alright guys, we actually
have some killer whales just off the side
of the kayaks here probably within about 200 yards. Wow, I can see the
dorsal fins breaching. Mark, can you see that? - [Mark] Yeah. I can
see it way out there. Wow. - That's a matter of
just standing here, being calm seeing if
the whales get curious and come closer to us. We're just gonna kind of
drift on the waves here and see what happens. When it comes to encountering
orcas in the wild, there are very strict
rules and regulations that boaters must respect. These guidelines ensure
not only the safety for those operating
the watercrafts, but even more
importantly the safety and wellbeing of the animals. Jason you see
anything back there? - It's beautiful conditions
and I've heard a few blows. There's some whales up ahead. It looks like there
might be some behind us. - Oh wow, I got orca right here just less than 100 yards, right off of the
side of the kayak. Did you see that? - [Jason] Yeah. (mumbles) - Wow. Whew, that was awesome. Did not expect that. I was looking much further out. - [Man] Oh, there's a breach. - [Man] We got it. - Wow. Did you get that? - [Man] Yeah, I got that. - Alright guys, so we
got some killer whales just off to my right here. You can see them breaching, blowing water up into the air. You got the setting sunlight. It is just absolutely epic. They're a lot bigger once
you get down into the water. Aren't they? - [Man] They're huge. (mumbles) - Orcas are incredibly
intelligent. Pods, which are usually
composed of related females have a great ability
to work together in an amazing instinct to protect members
of their community. Their society is
intricate, dedicated and perfectly adapted to being
the ocean's top predator. - [Jason] We're
surrounded Coyote. This is amazing. We are surrounded by
orcas right now guys. A toothed whale and the largest species
of dolphin in the world. There are three different types, resident, transient
and off shore. The distinction comes in the
shape of their dorsal fin and the design of
their saddle patch, which is the grayish
marking just behind and below the dorsal fin. Wow. That's a huge bill. Did you see that? - [Jason] Yeah. - [Coyote] There's the male one. - [Man] That one's
coming right at us. It's like coming
right at us man. - [Man] What do we do? Stay, we just stay put. - Yeah, we just
have to stay put. We don't know where
they're gonna come up. - [Man] Right there,
right there, right there. - That is awesome. For nearly 20 minutes, the pods graced us
with their presence as they continuously
breached the waves, took a breath and dove
back beneath the surface. I kept my focus on the water and I distinctly remember
holding my breath as I hope for just one more
chance to film the magic. Yet just as quickly
as they had arrived, they seemed to have disappeared. Alright guys, the
light is getting low and it's time for us to row
back toward the main boat. We saw some amazing
killer whales today. They got so close as we're just
drifting along on the waves, we got a pod buzz
right passed us heading in that direction. Wow, that was
absolutely incredible. - [Man] Yeah. - That was epic guys. Yeah. Man, that's crazy. It is unbelievable
how big they are. They come out of nowhere. You're watching one
in one direction, then all of a sudden one comes out just behind you. - [Man] You can
sense their presence. Like you know they're there. - Yeah. It's pretty epic. As we safely climb
from out kayaks and back onboard the Blackfish, I can feel an overwhelming sense of thankfulness for the universe as it let us toward this
fateful moment in time. Such an epic day. Getting deployed
out into the ocean, kayaking for several hours and then having a pod of orcas come up right
alongside the kayaks. It is a moment that
I will never forget. I'm Coyote Peterson. Be brave. Stay wild. We'll see on the next adventure. The killer whale, the
blackfish, the orca, no matter how you choose to
address this beautiful animal, it is undoubtedly the top
predator of the world's oceans. Their elegance and timeless
beauty are unmatched in the animal kingdom. When you see a family
pod in the wild, their presence
touches your heart in a way that cannot
be described in words. I know that for
as long as I live, I will never forget the
first moment I spotted that black dorsal fin
cutting through the waves and the thrill how it felt to
be in the presence of orcas. If you would like the chance
to encounter orcas in the wild, make sure to contact
Outerisland Excursions and book your whale watching
or kayaking tour today. Hey Coyote pack, have you
picked up your tickets for the brave
adventures tour yet? There's only a few left, so make sure to
click on this link to reserve your seats today and remember the tour
is the only place you can find one of
the exclusive golden
adventure tickets. And don't forget subscribe so
you can join me and the crew on our next big adventure. I am so proud to have
written this book and it was inspired by
a lot of the adventures that we have had. 