Hello, I'm Patsy Ramsey Daddy's not here, but this is JonBenet. She's four, Burke is seven, and we'd like to welcome you to our home, and wish you a very merry Christmas. one taught me love. One taught me patience. And one taught me pain. All of them dicked over by their parents...allegedly. Hello and welcome back to my channel! if you are new here, My name is Tom Harlock and I do not have an intro, but I do have a passion for falling into holes The deeper, the better and you can't talk about gaping holes without mentioning JonBenet Ramsey. Boulder Colorado's reigning pageant queen, JonBenet Ramsey was six years old in 1996, when she celebrated Christmas with her family, Her brother Burke, her mother Patsy, and her father John. The family loved Christmas and the home was always decorated to show home Standards and that's not hyperbole. Patsy would literally open her doors and do tours of the Christmas decorations to the neighbors It's very Caucasian, but they like to go all out for the sake of memories What'd you get JonBenet? Oh! However Christmas in 96 would be remembered for all the wrong reasons because on the 26th of December Patsy Ramsey you woke up and discovered her daughter missing. Hours later she would be discovered dead. The death of Jon Benet Ramsey was the birth of one of the most bizarre unsolved crimes in American history and it would go on to perplex Detectives the world and more importantly me for 20 years I have always loved this case, but recently I have dialed up my interest to a potentially unhealthy and probably criminal amount. Today I'm gonna tell you what we know happened what could have happened and why 20 years later This crime goes unsolved and no one's been convicted despite the fact that somebody has confessed This video is highly requested after the one I made a Madeleine McCann So, please let me know your theories and your thoughts down below in the comments. Also, this video is sponsored by the JonBenet Ramsey specifically the mystery surrounding her death was the perfect news story and the media lapped it up and seeing as JonBenet was a 24 times winner pageant star there were no shortage of photos for the media to use. Born in the summer of 1990 in Atlanta, Georgia JonBenet's name was a poor man her father John Bennett and her middle name was Patricia after her mother her brother Burke born in 87 was three years older than JonBenet She was six whilst. He was 9 after having three children Melinda Beth and John Andrew with his first wife Lucinda the couple divorced in 78 two years later John would marry Patsy Patricia Poe born in 56 was 23 years old when she married John.  After attending the West Virginia University She graduated with a bachelor's degree in marketing and advertising She was pretty good at it Patsy much like her daughter Jon Benet was no stranger to the pageant scene having won Miss West Virginia in 1977 three years later her sister would win the same title after Graduating Patsy move to Atlanta where she would meet John after having her two children The family would be complete John was a successful businessman in short He would buy and sell computer parts and formed a company called access graphics access graphics did amazingly well and John sold the company in 91 to Lockheed Martin a huge technology company that also manufactures war weapons a year after the sale John's daughter Beth aged 22 and a flight attendant would die on the freeway in an accident after leaving an art gallery Despite the tragedy the sale did make the Ramseys Multimillionaires and they acted like it they had private jets they had boats He also had two homes a mansion in Boulder Colorado and the holiday home in Michigan on the lake the family were in the mansion on the 23rd of December 1996 In fact, they were having a party the 30 friends and family in attendance could easily fit inside the house It was four stories and 15 rooms it was a very big house the party was going as parties do until a police officer knocked on the door of 755 15th street. A lady answered reportedly Susan Stein The police officer was responding to a 911 call placed from inside the address However, they were turned away by Susan it was an accident. Someone must've pocket-dialed or the other thing you have pocket phones in the 90s, but Then against the wall two days later. It was time for Christmas Christmas morning Saw Jon Benet her brother Burke father John and mother Patsy opening Christmas presents in in their pajamas They ate their traditional Christmas breakfast of Pancakes Hash browns and bacon Burke played with his new train set whilst Jon Benet rode her new bike It was a little bit too big for her But her parents assumed she'd grow into it these photos of Jon Benet were the last taken of her life The Ramsey family spent Christmas afternoon at their neighbors and friends The whites fleet and Priscilla arriving at 5:30 they exchange gifts and had some food to eat and at 8:30 The Ramsay's left stopping at neighbors on the way to deliver gift baskets according to John and Patsy the family arrived home at 10:00 p.m Where Jon Benet was fast asleep in the back of a car The family were due to travel to Michigan the next day so they had suitcases by the front door ready to leave John passed these suitcases carrying Jon Benet asleep from the car to her bedroom on the second floor Patsy then tied up JonBenet's hair and tucked her in ready for bed the rest of the family followed suit It was Christmas Day after all and most people who celebrate Christmas would find it pretty exhausting including melody Stanton melody was asleep as most are at 2:00 a.m. When she was awoken a child was screaming Lasting for a couple of seconds the scream startled melody enough to wake up her husband sleeping next to her He stayed awake for a while listening out for anything. They heard nothing, other than the sound of metal clanging against concrete Assuming a sleeping child nearby had a nightmare the couple went back to sleep early morning at around 5:30 Patsy woke up to sound of John showering Patsy then redressed in the clothes that she wore the previous day to the whites party a red turtleneck and black velvet trousers She then went downstairs to make some coffee via the spiral staircase at 5:52 that morning a call was placed from the Ramsey house using the phone attached to the wall by the kitchen. Here's the Recording Okay Patsy Ramsey did not make her coffee that morning. In fact the morning of the 26th of December 1996 would be unlike any other whilst walking down the spiral staircase Towards the bottom Patsy would step over three pieces of paper laid out on one of the steps Positioning herself to be able to read Patsy soon understood note for what it was a ransom note She screamed on-the-spot alerting John upstairs and let me read his name to you. Mr. Rumsey. Listen carefully We have a group of individuals that represent a small foreign fraction. We respect your business, but not the country It serves at this time. We have your daughter in our possession. She is safe and unharmed and if you want her to see 1997 you must follow our instructions to the left You will withdraw one hundred eighteen thousand dollars from your account One hundred thousand dollars will be in $100 bills and the remaining eighteen thousand in $20 bills Make sure they bring and adequate précised attache to the bank when you get home You will put the money in a brown paper bag. I will call you between 8:00 and 10:00 a.m Tomorrow to instruct you on delivery. The delivery will be exhausting so I advise you to be rested if We monitor you getting the money early We might call you early to arrange an earlier delivery of the money in the hence an earlier pickup of your daughter any Deviation if my instructions will result in the immediate execution of your daughter You will also be denied her remains for a proper burial the two gentlemen watching over your daughter Do not particularly like you so I advise you not to provoke them speaking to anyone about your situation such as the police or FBI Will result in your daughter being beheaded if we catch you talking to a stray dog She dies If you were loved the bank authorities She dies if the money is in any way Marvel tampered with she dies You can try to deceive us but we won't we are familiar with law enforcement? countermeasures and tactics you stand a 99 percent chance of killing you if you tried to outsmart us follow our instructions and you stand a 100% chance of getting her back you and your family are under constant scrutiny as well as the authorities Don't try and grow a brain John. You are not the only fat cars around So do not think that killing will be difficult don't underestimate us John use that good southern common sense of yours It's up to you now John victory SBT see if you're thinking that's a pretty detailed ransom note you would be correct 354 words to be exact the longest Ransom no recorded an American criminal history most notes aren't more than 50 words We'll talk more about the ransom note later After checking that Burke was okay And he was more phone calls were made this time to their friends the whites fleet and Priscilla and the ferny's barber and John Seven minutes after the original 9-1-1 call officers arrived on the scene. It was the day after Christmas So the border Police Department was spread a little bit thin in America. There are 50 homicides a day. That's about 20,000 a year I look it up and in Boulder, Colorado there had only been a reported 21 in the last 15 years Before Jon Benet, I could only find one other unsolved homicide in Boulder Colorado in 87 a 22 year old man caught Sidwell's was shot to death Maybe this is why Boulder Police Department was seemingly unprepared to tackle the events of that day and what was to come the boulder police department tapped the phones and they assign Detective Linda an and they mean a couple shitty soft searches of the house. Nothing major they were looking for entering exit points a Victim's advocate group also arrived to make breakfast for the Ramseys their job was to keep things normal keep the flow of the house going Even though that child had been robbed don't really understand the point of that by the time that burke had been taken to the White House and the 118 thousand dollar ransom had been collected there was 8 a.m All that was left to do apparently was wait for the author of the ransom note to call the by 8:30 There was still no call by 9:00. Then the phone had rung 9:30 a.m Still no call by the time the 10:00 a.m. Arrives and nobody bats an eyelid Detective arm feels something isn't right with the city Nobody said it's ten o'clock and the kidnappers haven't called. Nobody said that Was that something else you took? No, absolutely If I've been told to just sit and wait for a phone call between eight and ten to hear about my daughter and her abduction if ten o'clock comes and goes then I'm gonna know about it and everyone else in the office is gonna know about it John Ramsey just Continued with his day as normal. He opened his mail. I made a note then he was looking at his mail and then I wondered where did you mail come from and He organized the public relations team and a lawyer ID He also got on the phone to his pilot and asked them to a range of flight out for him and his family they wanted To leave Colorado and go to Michigan the police had to pull him to the side and say John that's not happening I'm sorry, but you're not going anywhere by the early afternoon There was still no call from this abductor and the Ramsey house was this calm frenzy JonBenet's room is finally treated like a crime scene and taped off and in an effort to Retain some normality the victims out for good groups thought it pain in the kitchen up Detective Vaughn is requesting backup from her superior. She is struggling to contain the situation by herself She hasn't much experience Patsy was slumped in a chair and John was sat still - the tension I suppose simmers and is just too much for everyone to handle because detective Linda aren't turns around to father John Ramsey and fleet white and ask them to do a search of the house from top to bottom to Check for anything that seems out place the house has been looked over Like I said a couple of times in search of entry and exit points, there were no signs of forced entry but there were definitely some security errors two windows were opened to allow for Christmas lights to lead out of the house another One leading down to the basement was completely smashed Although it was covered with a great security lights were out and the security system the home alarm system The Ramseys had just was not set up. Mr Ramsey and fleet-wide seemingly Interpreted Detective Ants instructions of top to bottom as bottom to top they started with the basement and the Ramseys houses But over four floors basement on the bottom level The first floor is where the kitchen is the second floor John Brennan's bedroom and Burkes and the third floor is purely Bedroom it's a giant attic with two stairs leading down It doesn't seem like the easiest of buildings to navigate without prior knowledge John led the way as they left the kitchen downstairs into the basement Into the boiler room going through the boiler room is the only way of accessing the wine cellar Which is where John led free first this area had been checked by law enforcement, but they couldn't see everything They didn't know where the light switch was But John Ramsey knew he flicked the switch to the wine cellar and screamed for lying on the floor mouth taped hands bound the neck tied Was his daughter Jon Benet because she was wearing a top with a silver star and a cross around her neck cause of death according To the autopsy was asphyxia by strangulation associated with cranial cerebral damage blunt force trauma, however, when Emmy John Mayer arrived He did not find Jon Benet in the basement. Like her father had when John Ramsey found his daughter He screamed out my baby, which I can only assume is an appropriate response to finding of death child And I know I have little experience in this however what he did next doesn't seem so appropriate upon finding his abducted daughter John removed the tape from her mouth and carried her upstairs and According to science that I had to learn she would have been stiff after carrying her upstairs He placed her down and I'll let Linda Ron explain. What happened next. I see John Ramsey carrying John burning up the last three steps From the basement and yet all Bini was clearly dead then she's been dead for a while. I Ordered him to put chamba knee down. It's reported Patsy then sprawled all over John Bernie you do not have to be a detective to understand that all this tomfoolery is Completely ruin the crime scene some say that was the point but I'll discuss that lumineer the Denver Police and the FBI Helped wealthy at least offer to but alas the crime goes unsolved Jon Benet Ramsey was abducted but not abducted but definitely murdered in her own home We spoke a little bit about that We had ransom note earlier But I want us to talk about that and further detail because it was one of the strangest parts of this crime if you get Rid of the ransom note. This isn't an abduction. This is this is to the murder. Usually if you're gonna leave a ransom note It's pretty short pretty concise doesn't give too much away. Just the bare minimum Okay This is blank piece of paper and I'm gonna write ransom note to let you guys know exactly how long a ransom note should take and what one should look like I have your Daughter 1 million pounds for Return no police or She dies 16 17 17 Words, there's also the mention of a foreign faction, which obviously rings bells as terrorism terrorism and FBI go hand in hand So I'm not quite sure as to why they didn't claim jurisdiction Especially seeing as it was a kidnapping which could have gone over state lines ato the police had nothing to do with it It should have been the FBI. I know you're thinking this wasn't an abduction. This was a straight murder It would have sounded that simple if there wasn't the ransom note Why would there be a ransom note left for a child has been killed and put in a cellar further? Inspection of the ransom note would reveal that it was in fact written on a pad of paper Found inside the Ramseys home patsy Ramsay's pen and piece of paper was used to make the ransom note in fact When they found the aforementioned notepad several pages have been ripped out removed and because the note was written in sharpie Some of the pen had leaked through to a former page So the police could clearly see that the note had not only been written in this pad It had been drafted in this pad a previous version of the know existed starting, mr. And mrs Ramsay the ransom that was also tested for fingerprints however Nothing conclusive was found as I mentioned earlier Access graphics and 91 was sold to Lockheed Martin Lockheed Martin our technology company and they produced war weapons and you also have links to the MKULTRA program There are so many resources online If you would like to read more about MKULTRA But essentially they conducted the experiments to make people turn into sex slaves and undercover assassins and loads of weird psychological bizarre shit people have theorized that JonBenet Ramsey was being from one of a better word turn into a sex slave virus dong-gun and Apparently there was a book found in John Ramsey's office depicting how exactly you can make a stun-gun sex slave more often than not when a child is found dead in their own home is as a result of somebody inside that house whether it be a family member a friend killing them another statistical probability is the likelihood of abuse I had to find out for myself whether or not JonBenet Ramsay was sexually abused and the conclusion was although there was no Consistent sexual abuse something may have happened leading up to the night of her murder The autopsy also lists the damage done by the garage used them around JonBenet's neck when Jon Benet was found She had Agora - round the neck and her wrists were tied Agora - if you do not know as a ligature made out of some type of rope or twine used to strangle somebody and control Them if you can't comprehend exactly what agarose is and don't worry I couldn't either so I've made one This is Kelly Now if you know Kelly she usually lives in that corner And I've brought around for one day on one day only I've decided that would be a great idea Demonstrate a gerak killing on Kelly using an August cord the pulling and twisting of a group will cause the strangulation and choking around here Was completely caved in due to there being no distinct Clarification as to whether it was a passion or a strangulation It caused the death pupa theorized that it may have been a sex game gone wrong The house was searched for a potential murder weapon. What could possibly have caused the blunt force trauma? The only thing that could be found was a flashlight. It was a metal heavy duty flashlight I know this type of flashlight all too. Well when I was younger probably about Bert's age Nine years old my little brother He must have been about six or seven him and I were playing around in the kitchen during a blackout We were flashing around torches and I think we were hiding seeking in the darkness and as an accident I don't truly understand the weight of this flashlight and I accidentally twats my brother across the face spitting as I open so I know exactly how heavy These flashlights can be in that they can split skin and me definitely smash bone however The flashlight was tests for prints and there were none the batteries as well had no fingerprints all these little things Result in a public-opinion split two ways one. It was an inside job caused by someone inside the family or two It was an intruder - those of you who may want to ask. Let me address very directly I did not kill my daughter Jon Benet another strange autopsy finding and piece of evidence that people don't quite understand was the pineapple found in JonBenet's stomach the Autopsy revealed that Jon Benet Ramsey had pieces of fleshy fruit Like pineapple grapes inside her lower digestive tract the finding of the food means Jon Ben He must have had fruit hours before she was found dead because the body didn't have time to process it However, when her parents are questioned on this I did not feed her Pineapple when we returned home from White's house. She was sound asleep She was put in her bed and tucked in. Good night as you can see pineapple milk Which is kind of weird was found and shown in the crime-scene photos from that day When tested there are only two sets of fingerprints on that bowl one was Patsy Ramsey Second was Burke Burke Ramsey 9 years old at the time of his sister's death. I was sleeping throughout the whole ordeal However, Internet users have theorized that perhaps Burke was related to the incident This has been fueled by interviews made by Burke when he was a child and when he was an adult He was interviewed by the detectives aboard a police station and the questioned about the pineapple Bowl. I'll put the clip here What about Christmas Eve when you're going up there? Did you guys kind of stack 3? 2016 buck featured on the dr Phil show where he had his first public interview an ounce that is anonymity as an adult I think it's fair to say he didn't come across well in the interview. He was smiling throughout but perhaps that was nervousness Remember the Catskills small and her eyes were closed I think one of her eyes was a little bit like droopy or something. That was beard. How did you feel seeing her? Sadness, I don't think I really fully grasps like after this I won't see her again I can imagine Burke being starved of attention a little bit. I'm going to resent his sister My family have had to deal with the fact that I'm the internet superstar I can imagine that's not very easy for them a potential timeline that has been put forward Jon Benet is put to bed. And then she goes down stair. Perhaps they make us off a snack. I'm going downstairs She finds Burke at the dining room table eating some pineapple milk Which his mother made from little JonBenet potentially walking past grabs a piece of pineapple from the bowl wouldn't be unlikely that's the kind of thing that children do and that would be why there's no fingerprints on the bowl after eating the Pineapple and that's why it's not a stunt Burke gets pissed off grabs a flashlight Twice or over the back of the hair causing the trauma, Jon Benet falls to the floor. Berg gets scared goes back upstairs He's only nine goes underneath his duvet and just waits for this bad dream to end Patsey then comes downstairs in the morning to make a coffee where she finds Jon Benet A husband they do the biggest cover-up of the century while spats he is writing the ransom note John takes JonBenet into the cellar downstairs Where he ties a rope this is where she wakes up and he has to choke at the death for real I want to quickly take you back to the 9-1-1 call that I showed you at the beginning of the video and I want to play the last couple of seconds you can oh Here patsy ramsey disconnect the call and then you're gonna hear some words. I'm, not sure what those words say however after audio analysis It has been suggested that is actually a conversation between Patsy and Berg and John Ramsey This would obviously go hand in hand with the book theory they come downstairs They find JonBenet's body Burke says oh What's this and they say well we know what the fuck you did go upstairs now. Forget this from your brain your only child We're not having you taken away from us Another theory is that I've intruded it is somebody came into the house Which is a likely theory due to the fact that if you remember the scream that was heard at 2:00 a.m Do you remember the sound of metal on concrete after is similar to the sound of the great closing? Outside the broken window leading up from the basement This leads me to theorize that perhaps this was used as an exit point little after 2 a.m Or JonBenet was killed hence the scream I know what you're thinking surely if there was a giant screen from JonBenet in the basement where she was killed her parents upstairs had Heard the cause of the positioning of the basement and the way that the vent shaft was leading from the basement to the outside world A test was performed and it showed that if a scream came from that bedroom, it would be heard more clearly next door Then it would be two floors up three floors up in her parents bedroom It is not unlikely that Jon Benet was taken from her bedroom into that cellar killed screen great goke However, this idea is contradicted by crime-scene photos as there are cobwebs showing going across the window those cobwebs should have been disturbed if somebody was using it to get in and out for a lot of people the idea of an intruder and The ransom note being written inside the house doesn't really add up but to me it kind of does if I break into somebody's house with the intention of Abduction and I am caught with a massive note saying that I'm gonna take a child and then hold a hostage for lo the money You're going to be facing a much harsher punishment than if you simply broke into the house and weren't discovered with all these objects Intruder could easily broken in from 5:00 p.m They could have stayed anywhere in the house is huge unmarked car confessed to the killing of JonBenet Ramsey He said he was present he knew exactly what happened to her and why he did it He said he was sick in the head and he was really wanted to have sex with a bunch of kids ever See the Ramsey home In Boulder, of course, how do you happen to see it? I've just seen it on several occasions Physically, not just on TV relations. You've been his home, of course Yes, however, DNA exonerates him and proves that his confession was completely false John Mark. Karr was not even in Boulder Colorado at the time However, he did have links to the area the Ramseys were and that's Horace Lee difficult to interview They did do interviews with Barbara Walters. Why didn't you take a lie-detector test? No, one justice really take a lie-detector test police never asked you to take a lie-detector test. Now one of the policemen that Investigated this murder. He said if I were to ask you to take a lie-detector test What would you say I said I would be offended there was so much information that it almost seems like this case is never gonna be solved recently leaked documents from 99 show that an indictment was made against Patsy and John Ramsey for child neglect The charges were essentially for putting John Pinette in a position where she could have been harmed knowingly in 2008 Mary Lacey the district attorney at the time of Boulder, Colorado Determined that the Ramsay should be exonerated. They shouldn't be convicted and they should not have any prejudice against their name She formally apologized but it was probably a bit too late I was 2 years previously Patsy Ramsey you have died as shown in the Madeleine McCann case any investigation that starts poorly usually ends with no conviction the five main detectives on this case all have theories of their own and now the Gag orders have been lifted They are free to say what they want detectives whitson and Smith think it was an intruder Detective Thomas thinks it was Patsey. Cola thinks its Burke and detective Linda are she thinks it was John. Sadly, I don't see this case coming to a resolution anytime soon However, I will keep my eye out and if anything new updates I'll let you guys know just like Madeleine McCann whose case has reportedly been given an extra 150 thousand pounds of public money I proposed that I have the 150 thousand in small denominations which I will then use as toilet paper for the foreseeable because that Probably have more fucking use let me know down in the comments below how you would waste 150,000 pounds and who you think is guilty of the death of JonBenet Ramsey I'm sure you've got loads of theories thoughts and facts and I'm sure I've missed a bunch of stuff out Probably intentionally because a lot of it was kind of gross. Thank you for watching. I love you. Goodbye 