This video is presented in Virtual Reality. Be sure to watch with the YouTube Mobile App,
Google Cardboard, or any compatible VR viewing device, or things will look a little wonky. Hi! Pardon the 3D avatar - this was the only way
that I could make this video work. Let’s talk about the past, present, and
future of Virtual Reality entertainment. Consumer VR has come a long way since the
early days of the Nintendo Virtual Boy. Sure, the general idea existed before even
then, but when the Virtual Boy Released in 1995, it was the first real mass-market major
gaming console capable of displaying stereoscopic 3D graphics. Back then, the technology was limited to a
red monochrome display, using a parallax effect to create the illusion of depth. It was a highly sophisticated technology at
the time, but nowadays improvements in 360 degree display have become ubiquitous. Companies like Oculus, Valve, and even Google
are investing millions, and even billions of dollars into the next evolution of the
technology, and the more that VR platforms become democratized, the more independent
creators, including myself, are jumping at the chance to play in the sandbox. But VR, like all other developing platforms,
is experiencing growing pains. I’ve created some Virtual Reality content
- on my YouTube channel, for third-party developers, and I’ve even had my work featured in a
major South Korean festival in 2016. I was one of the early adopters of the technology
when it came to YouTube, but, despite the fact that I believe 360-degree video has great
potential, there are plenty of things that continue to hold it back. Today, I’m going to share 3 major beefs
I have with VR as a storytelling device. The first is less an issue with the medium,
and more a meta issue with the current VR industry. There are tons of companies out there vying
to be the go-to VR viewing platform, but very few of them seem concerned with actually providing
worthwhile VR content. This has played a large part in the current
struggles of the medium. After all, imagine it in terms of the traditional
film experience! Why pour billions of dollars into building
movie theaters, but invest almost NOTHING into producing actual movies? By the same token, as a filmmaker, I REALLY
wish companies would stop focusing so much on developing VR platforms, and start focusing
MORE on developing VR programming. The internet is FULL of Virtual Reality demos
showing off the technology possible, but legitimate, long-form stories told through the medium
are hard to come by. And the truth is, as it stands right now,
there just aren’t a lot of stories being told through 360 degree video. The stories that ARE being told are often
relegated to obscure industry-specific venues. One of the reasons that the few VR films out
there seem to exist mainly as art pieces at galleries or film festivals is simply because
nobody is developing these films to be viewed or screened to a mass market audience. Don’t get me wrong - documentaries are a
great way to use VR filmmaking - it allows the viewer to see things from a first person
perspective - something they can't get from traditional filmmaking - but the medium will
NEVER find major success until stories that you might find in a more traditional setting
are developed with this new technology in mind. VR films will never be accepted by mainstream
audiences until VR films are marketed to mainstream audiences. But this is hard to do when you consider some
of the challenges the medium brings with it. For instance, beef #2, the ‘Point of View’
Problem. Obviously the defining feature of Virtual
Reality is the ability to become totally immersed in the scene. If you want the viewer to feel cramped, you
can make it happen simply by putting them in a cave. If you want them to feel awe, you can make
it happen by putting them on a mountain top. If you want them to feel like they’re falling,
you can make it happen by dropping them from the sky,
Look out! Sorry, dumb joke… you get the point though,
right? By putting the viewer into the very center
of the action, they can feel totally immersed, and are naturally encouraged to explore the
scene around them. The only PROBLEM is, in a linear form of narration
like film, you want the viewer to focus on a specific thing at a specific time. When you go to a movie theater to watch the
latest blockbuster flick, the audience is all looking at the same screen, and taking
in the same image. During the film, the director makes specific
choices in lighting, framing, and editing, cutting a specific way to show you a precise
moment. A precise angle. A precise piece of information so that they
can continually unfold the tale. But in a 360 degree environment, you really
don't have any control over what the audience members choose to look at, and it's incredibly
difficult to channel the viewer's attention to a specific direction. I mean, there are several workarounds to this,
but if you have to keep using visual cues to direct their eyes to a certain spot, then
what's the point of even having the total environment available to look at in the first
place? And what if they miss those visual cues and
fail to see an important bit of information because they just happened to, y'know, look
away from where the director wanted them to look? You might think such a worry is overblown,
but consider the fact that that there's a dinosaur right behind you, and you're likely
only just now noticing it because I'm telling you. (roar) It’s a whole new paradigm of storytelling,
and it remains to be seen whether or not traditional narrative structures can work in such a setting. Lastly, consider the problem of PRODUCING
the content altogether, in what we'll call the Technological Entry Barrier There are two main ways to create a VR film
- either by capturing a panorama in live action, or by employing computer animation in a 3D
environment. Both have pros and cons. If you’re looking for the best overall image
quality, something that's future-proofed, 3D animation provides you with an ample amount
of resolution, and the ability to perfect every single angle of your scene. BUT, 3D animation takes a long time to make,
and as any animator will tell you, a LOT of cheating goes on even when animating a traditional
movie. Specific camera angles are chosen to cut down
the necessary animations needed, and you can hide a multitude of unpolished work through
editing, but a total 360 degree environment means you’ll need to have every inch of
the scene animated to perfection. It's a tall order. So, maybe you’ll instead elect to save time
by shooting everything live action. But again, it’s hard enough to direct a
scene when you’re allowed to sit right behind the camera. If you’ve got to hide from it completely
so that you can record a complete surrounding, directing the picture become THAT much more
difficult. And, unless you want to manually stitch a
ton of angles together with traditional cameras (which is it’s own headache), the available
options for VR capturing devices is extremely small. The affordable prosumer options have terrible
image quality, and the camera models that can pass for professional use cost WAAAY more
than most folks are willing to invest in an unproven medium. Not to mention the fact that VR headsets for
the end user are pretty expensive, and require a big chunk of change to own, themselves. ALL of these contributing factors are a large
part of why you just haven’t seen very many quality VR movies. In truth, VR can probably find its BEST use
in interactive, real time, video game environments. But here’s the rub - many gaming households
have simply refused to adopt VR as an extension of the consoles they’re currently using. My thoughts? VR does have a place in entertainment. It could be a WELCOME addition to failing
arcades across the country looking to entice customers back to their establishments. Why more arcades haven’t invested in immersive,
co-op Virtual Reality party games is beyond me. It seems like the perfect match. The truth is, I’d LOVE to create more VR
content. I really would! But until some of these more common hurdles
are able to cleared, I guess I’ll be limited to a flat screen. 