From this photo it’s easy to see that not
all parts of a flame are made the same – they can be brighter around the edges and darker
in the middle. Which is weird, because a flame is normally *brightest* in the middle, since
that’s where you’re looking at the most hot burning gas. I mean, Look at the sun – actually, don’t do that
without a solar filter – but, it’s a big ball of hot glowing gas, and it’s definitely
brightest in the middle. In fact, not only does it get darker towards the edges, it gets
redder. These dark, red edges of the sun are called “limbs,” since “limbus” is
latin for “edge”. And the limbs of the sun get darker and redder near the edge for
three simple reasons: First, the sun is cooler closer to its “surface”
and hotter deeper in. Second, hotter stuff glows brighter and yellower,
which you’ve probably seen with a hot poker or candle flame. And third, if you look across the edge of
a sphere, you have to look through more of the sphere for your line of sight to reach
a given depth than when you look directly into the middle. If the sphere is only partially
transparent (like the sun), when looking at the edge, you won’t see as deep into the
depths before your vision is blocked. So, when you look directly – through a solar
filter – into the middle of the sun, you see deeper in to hot gas which glows bright
and yellow. And when you look at the edge of the sun, you see shallower, cooler, gas
which glows darker and redder. The same effect in reverse explains why some
flames have bright edges and darker centers – these flames are clearly hotter and brighter
near their surfaces, likely because that’s where the best mixture of oxygen and fuel
is, so when we look at their edges, our line of sight passes through more hot light-emitting
gases than when we look straight-on. Take a candelabra and turn it side-on, and you’ll
see exactly what’s going on. The optical effect I describe in the video is called limb darkening or limb brightening. It also explains the theory the appearance observe nebulae which are actually hollow expanding shell of glowing gases 