High school- the place where you do the majority
of your maturing. An evolutionary hotbox of hormones, feelings,
social pressures, and a million other cues where your body and mind all go through the
most intense changes you'll ever experience in your life. College- the place where your newly adult
mind is minted with the greater ideas of civilization, where you are taught the finer points of humanity
and elevated from the mud and muck to the lofty heights of mathematics, art, and history,
and the place that will financially cripple you for the first two decades of your adult
life. Today we're putting high school up against
college, to determine an ultimate winner on which can ruin your life harder. Compulsory education was adopted in the United
States in the early 20th century, in response to a growing need for a specialized and educated
workforce. Up until then most jobs made do with apprenticeships,
and the lack of an interconnected world required very little from individual workers. During the industrial revolution though, technology
began to advance in leaps and bounds, and countries around the world soon realized that
their children needed the basic fundamentals of an education which up until then, had been
a luxury reserved mostly for the wealthy. Today all children in the US must attend grade
school through to high school, graduating with a diploma in their twelfth year. For those unable to complete their education,
or forced to drop out, GED programs exist to help certify that they have received a
basic high school education and are the minimum entry requirements for most non-technical
jobs. Curriculums in high school tend to include
basic US and world history, physical fitness, mathematics, and introductory sciences such
as biology and physics. Modern colleges are the evolution of the prestigious
education afforded to only the most select individuals at specialized academies of various
types. While some academies taught a well-rounded
curriculum, many had specializations in specific subjects such as mathematics or the arts,
and you might be expected to receive an education at several institutions before being considered
a true professional of your field. Nowadays college degree programs have been
streamlined and consolidated so that applicants typically only need to attend a single location
to fulfill all the requirements of their degrees. With the explosion in technical jobs across
the global jobs sector, a strong emphasis on a college education has seen more college
graduates than at any other time in human history, while at the same time traditional
trade schools which teach only a very select education- what would have traditionally been
an apprenticeship- are on the decline. With advancements in robotics and artificial
intelligence, it's estimated that trade schools will only continue to decline, as a need for
human laborers shrinks until eventually being non-existent. So in one corner we have the place where you
will hit all of your most important developmental years, the building you will be incarcerated
in for four years while evolution hits you full-force in the face with everything it's
got and puts you through the weirdest changes you'll experience in your life. In the other corner we have the place that
is supposed to mature your ways of thinking but will really only serve as a deeply depressing
introduction into adulthood and ruin your finances for decades to come. Which can do a better job of ruining your
life? Who can win this epic death match to utterly
crush your human spirit? High school comes out strong right out of
the gate with quite a few obvious strengths in this fight. For starters this is the place where your
body will experience its major changes from childhood to adulthood, and that opens up
the opportunity for high school to humiliate you in dozens of incredible ways. For one, your voice is going to start cracking
as your vocal chords mature, and in the high-pressure social darwinism that is high school, nothing
is going to ruin your life worse than having your voice suddenly turn into a mickey mouse
type high pitch squeak, as literally everyone in the entire world laughs at you. As your body changes you're going to start
experiencing other kinds of weird and awesomely humiliating things as well, which high school
will ruthlessly exploit to crush your spirit. For girls, you've probably already been getting
your period, but some of you will have no clue what a period is as you're a late bloomer. While this is a perfectly normal situation,
the moment other girls realize you haven't gotten your period yet they are going to tease
you mercilessly, and your self-esteem will plummet as you think of yourself as nothing
more than a little baby, not a girl on her way to being a woman. Ouch! That one's gonna leave some lifelong psychological
trauma! But wait, because high school is also typically
when your breasts start developing, and you're going to have to juggle feelings of inadequacy
if they grow too slow or too little, or feelings of shame and embarrassment if they grow too
much or too fast! Ladies, high school just dealt your soul a
one-two punch of epic proportions. But the guys aren't getting off any easier. High school marks your first introduction
to body hair, and it's going to start coming in everywhere and it's going to start smelling-
a fact many of you will take a while to realize. Before high school body deodorant was only
optional, and now it's mandatory, but it'll take you a while to catch on. Meanwhile you're going to be getting called
stinky behind your back and won't find out until you overhear a bunch of people laughing
at you over your BO. Some of you though won't be getting much body
hair, or it'll be coming late, and that's going to just crush your self-esteem as you
consider yourself a little boy and not a growing man. Once you leave high school you'll realize
that literally nobody cares about body hair and it's in no way a big deal, but for those
crucial four years you'll be considered a baby that isn't maturing as fast as everyone
else, and let's face it that's enough excuse for other high schoolers to tease you into
oblivion. But wait, because it gets better- you're going
to start getting erections now, completely randomly, and completely out of your control. That's right, high school is bonertown, population
you, and they're going to come fast and- on second thought, we’re not gonna finish that
sentence. The point is, your random erections are going
to give high school all kinds of opportunities to ruin your soul by putting you in hugely
embarrassing situations. Your self-esteem is going to get crushed as
kids laugh at your completely out of control and unintended erection, even while they're
ignoring the fact that they have the same problem because yay hormones. High school kids are vicious, and that intense
mix of hormones and social darwinism is a ruthless cocktail that can kill your self-esteem
and give you issues for life, this fight looks one-sided, and high school may be the clear
winner for the battle to wreck your soul. But wait, because college is up next and it's
coming fast out of the gate with some knockout punches of its own! College can't compete with high school in
crushing your self-esteem with bodily changes, as most of you will have completed all of
maturity by then- physically anyways. Mentally you're still babies, but that's something
you won't learn until you leave college and enter the real world for the first time. Instead of humiliating you, college will work
to simply crush your will to live and joy for life directly. At first college seems like a dream come true-
you're finally out of the house and on your own for the first time. You're mostly independent, nobody forces you
to go to class or do your homework, and there's no more curfew or restrictions for weekends,
or weeknights either for that matter! How could college be that bad? Well, you may not have a curfew anymore, but
you do have seven AM classes. Every day. For years. And with nobody to force you to be in bed
by ten, odds are it's going to take you a loooong time to develop the discipline to
get to bed at a decent time, so for months you're going to be showing up to 7 am classes
on three or four hours of sleep. And then just to rub it in, your next class
won't be scheduled for two hours after that one gets out, which is just enough free time
to... do nothing. You can't go back to your dorm room and sleep
because by the time you get there and fall asleep you'll have to be back up and out the
door. You'll end up with a total dead spot right
in the middle of your day, a total waste of time which could be filled with classes so
you could get out two hours earlier in the evening and have time to do homework, study,
and relax- but no. You get nothing, for two hours. You get to go sit on the grass somewhere and
try to read a book while you pretend it's not eating you alive that this is a completely
mismanaged waste of time. Just like adult life. But hey, you'll eventually get your sleep
schedule in order and discipline yourself- just in time for your college classes to ramp
up dramatically and leave you with so much work to do and so many exams that you don't
get to sleep anyways! When will you ever in your entire life need
to call upon the knowledge gained by doing a ten page paper- single spaced- on the mating
habits of galapagos tortoises? Who knows! Who cares! Paper's due at 7 AM tomorrow, get to work! Maybe you think high school is still in the
lead for the battle to crush your human spirit, but it only shows you haven't been to college
yet. That's because you'll soon start to realize
that three quarters of your classes have absolutely nothing to do with your major, and only exist
to fulfill a total BS requirement for a degree as dictated by state and federal law! Requirements by the way which were shaped
by the very educational institutions which profit by forcing you to take all those extra
classes. Want to be a journalist or creative writer
and get a fine arts degree? Here's six semesters of mandatory mathematics
and science classes you have to take in order to get your degree, because if you didn't
then your college experience would be about half as long and they would only get away
with charging you half as much! As the reality of your mounting student loans
begins to manifest in your life and you get closer to graduation, and having to pay those
loans off, the true evil genius powers of college to crush the human soul will become
clearer. High school may have the power to humiliate,
but college has the power to destroy your finances, literally steal food out of your
mouth through student loan payments, and annihilate your self-esteem as you're forced to move
back home at 26 because your loans make it impossible to live on your own. And with that, we're declaring College the
clear winner of this epic Who Would Win episode! High school may be rough on the self-esteem,
but ultimately all that high school can do is tease you until you cry alone on a saturday
night because nobody invited you to the cool kid's party. College will destroy your entire life financially
until you're crying at home alone in your parents basement every single Saturday night
because you can't afford to leave the house. In this battle between evil superpowers for
your soul, college easily chews you up and spits you out, leaving you a broken shell
of fading hope. What about you? Are you struggling with high school or college
life right now? Maybe you’ve been thinking about building
a website where you can commiserate about those early mornings and pointless papers. Well the absolute best place to go to get
that done is Wix. With Wix, you can easily create a personal
site by using any one of the hundreds of their fully customizable templates, all with an
easy to use drag and drop interface, leaving you plenty of time to study, or more realistically,
sneak in a quick nap between classes. Need even more help? Wix’s powerful ADI feature will create a
fantastic and unique site for you in moments just by answering a few simple questions. Try out Wix today by visiting the link in
the description or going to wix.com/go/infographics2019. Which do you think should really win this
matchup for your spirit- college or high school? Why or why not? Let us know in the comments! And as always if you enjoyed this video don't
forget to Like, Share, and Subscribe for more epic matchups! 