Hello everyone~ The reason why I turned on Instalive today is because The reason why I turned on Instalive today is because I did the poster photoshoot for Yerihan Bang I turned Instalive on to promote it, as well as give a few spoilers There's a lot of people coming in now I'm so touched! I was like, no way is it for me? Everyone i got a bouquet Thank you so much~ I got flowers from the producer of Yerihan  Bang! They keep giving me things Certificate of Appointment, oh I have to, how do I show it, Certificate of Appointment Red Velvet's Yeri, Kim Yerim The Person stated above is kid maknae Yeri who has lots of laughter on stage As Yerom who is serious, have deep thoughts and is friendly in her daily life She'll be communicating with viewers and provide quick-witted entertainment and touching moments She is hereby appointed as the room master of  Thank you~ " From the DumDum Studio Producers" The best This is my first time working in a while and I'm feeling so good I received a certificate of appointment I'll take questions about Yerihan Bang About the program Before I introduce it I'm curious about When does it air? Can i say this? From June when? June 8th, Monday, at DumDum Studio's Youtube The first episode is scheduled tobe uploaded Everyone, you'll watch it right? What will i be doing on Yerihan bang They said I can do anything that I want First, it's a viewable radio it's viewable radio but I'll be doing ir like Yeri's _______ Bang They said just don't do a cooking broadcast Anyway for a cooking broadcast.... for a cooking broadcast... I was gonna try to do it We talked about it What... with what contents, what kind of broadcast would be good for me to do, every one... Please write it in the comments then I'll collect them And if I tell the producers they said they'll take care of everything Show us your composing Mukbang! Cooking broadcast is good! Everything Yerim does is good I think makeup will be fun too Before I used to have a poop hand, as they would call it These days I'm pretty goof at it, I've gotten older as well You know I'm 22 Unnie's hobbies My hobby, I like taking photos Baking, of baking sounds fun Baking... Will anyone eat it My Bread? What if no one eats it Please do 'What's in my bag' I saw that too, I guess 'Waht's in my bag' is the trend these days Pilates Tthere's so many things to do, how many is that already Pilates too..... I'm working hard these days so Exercising Everyone, I can do all these things but If you want to see it, you have to go to... The first broadcast is on June 8th Monday June 8th Youtube channel called DumDum Studio The first episode is to be uploaded then so You have to watch it It's a program that we're all creating together Then I think I'll ask for views once more Alright, then now As a Streaming DJ But honestly, my fans probably Know this but No dont's go I still have things to say, excuse me I regularly listen to the radio a lot I think I've always said I want to be a radio DJ and now I finally get to be one Finding the time to end the live I'm going to be a radio DJ so please anticipate Yerihan  lots and lots June 8th But if I do this, then the fans will probably edit it like this and that They'll upload it with fun. You will, right? Monday June 8th Make it float like this, Monday June 8th On a yottube channel called DumDum Studio The first episode is to be uploaded Please watch it lot and on Y erihan Bang I Plan to... show you lots and lots of things I wanted to d, things I wanted show you so Everyone, it was so see you for the first time in awhile June 8th, the first episode will be on youtube so please anticipate This, save..... Save it..... I'll save it Please watch it alot, bye~ I can turn it off right? Bye!!! What time? What time, what time is it I was about to turn it but clicked cancel instead 10AM! Korean time! Like subscribe and turn on notifications! Bye! Bye bye~~ I love you 