classes. You can see he was being removed from pictures
and video with Kim Jong Un. You’ll spot him there on the left, but not
on the right. There he is again; but there he’s not. Credit to the German newspaper Der Spiegel,
which combed through screenshots from North Korean state TV to see the differences (1). Clearly the North Korean regime was trying
to erase the existence of someone who had often appeared with the dear leader- to purge
him from the record. But who, and why? Often the case with opaque North Korea is
that we simply don’t know anything, but not in this example. In this example, I can at least tell you the
who- the man was Jang Song-thaek, a high ranking official in the North Korean government under
both Kim Jong Un, and Kim Jong Il before him. Here he is on December 20th, 2011 at the laying
in state of Kim Jong Il, and here he is walking behind Kim Jong Un at the funeral a week later. Jang Song-thaek was close to the Kims not
because of his status in the government and military, but because was family. He was Kim Jong Il’s brother-in-law, and
therefore Kim Jong Un’s uncle. In fact he was so high ranking that in the
final years of Kim Jong Il’s failing health, North Korea observers believed Jang Song-Thaek
was running the government while helping to groom Kim Jong Un to take over after his father’s
death (2). Some even said he was a reformer, perhaps
signalling new ways for North Korea under new leadership. And so everything seemed to be going to plan
after Kim Jong Il died in 2011. Kim Jong Un, the son with his uncle Jang Song-thaek
walking alongside a 1976 Lincoln Hearse and wailing crowds. But questions remained. Most glaring, how would the transfer of power
from Kim Jong Il to Kim Jong Un play out? The world knew so little about the dictator’s
son. At the time of his father’s death, we knew
that Kim Jong Un had spent time in a school in Switzerland as a child, and that he was
‘thought to be in his late 20’s’ (3). But did he intend to follow in his father’s
footsteps by keeping North Korea under an iron thumb-- developing nuclear weapons, or
might he handle domestic and international affairs differently? What would Kim Jong Un do? Not long after his ascension, we learned the
domestic part of the answer. Within two years, December 2013, he had his
uncle Jang Song-thaek arrested at a party conference, accused of a vague ‘plot’
to form a faction. See if you can parse the explanation by state
media: “Jang Song Thaek violating the principles of the cabinet and system ...[??] did tremendous
harm to the work of the country and the improvement of the people’s living and steeped in capitalist
way of life … led a dissipated and degenerative life” Whatever his supposed crime, he was arrested,
executed by anti aircraft machine guns, then burned on the spot (31). The record of his existence was then removed
from pictures and videos. So, very quickly, we learned that domestically,
Kim Jong Un would continue the ruthlessness of his father. Which leaves only the second half of our question:
what would he do on the international stage? Voice 1: “NHS Blackpool Clinical Commissioning
Group say all patients should avoid contacting GPs or using hospital services "unless absolutely
necessary” Voice 2: 50% of phones at Whipps Cross are
down. All elective operations today and tomorrow
are cancelled. Pathology labs also severely affected so we
can't get patient blood test results Voice 1: We ask patients to only come to our
A&Es if absolutely necessary. "We do not yet know how long this incident
will last, and therefore are cancelling all outpatient, endoscopy, cardiology and radiology
appointments scheduled for this weekend. Voice 2: Kettle still working, so we'll be
OK! Around lunchtime on May 12th, 2017, computers
in some of the largest hospital systems in London began to lock up one by one. Data about patients, appointments, scans-
inaccessible. But these computers weren’t crashing. Instead, doctors or nurses who tried to use
a PC were met with this message: “Oops, your files have been encrypted!...Many
of your documents, photos, videos, databases and other files are no longer accessible because
they have been encrypted. Maybe you are busy looking for a way to recover
your files, but do not waste your time. Nobody can recover your files without our
decryption service...Send $300 worth of bitcoin to this address.” As if that wasn’t chilling enough for a
hospital, a timer on the left counted down exactly 3 days, after which the price would
double, and another timer with 1 week, after which all files would vanish forever. As news services like the BBC began reporting
that the National Health Service had been hit with a major ‘cyber attack’, hospital
staff and doctor’s offices tried to stop the bleeding by unplugging computers that
hadn’t yet been infected (4). But the ransomware attack was spreading at
lighting speed. It had already traversed from Southeast Asia
to Russia, where it hit the Ministry of the Interior, across the Atlantic into North America,
where it affected businesses like FedEx, and into mainland Europe where it grabbed the
Spanish telecom Telefonica and France’s Renault (6). And now it was tearing across the United Kingdom
and the Island of Ireland (5). Estimates say a third of all hospital trusts
in the UK were affected in those hours, along with 600 other doctor’s offices. At least 19,000 appointments were cancelled,
though officials stopped counting, while major surgical operations were cancelled, ambulances
diverted to unaffected hospitals, and overloaded phone lines meant some chemo patients weren’t
able to reach emergency lines (4,p1) . A few hospitals, mistakenly believing the coast
was clear, flipped machines back on only to find them immediately caught in the ransomware. In all, over 230,000 computers in more than
150 countries succumbed to the spread (7). Each new device got the same message with
the same running timer ticking down. The software came to be known as Wannacry. And unbeknownst to anyone that day, a clue
about the perpetrator’s identity was lurking in Wannacry’s software: a bit of code copied
from an attack done by the cybercrime group Lazarus. Now this clue wouldn’t be conclusive, but
there’s one important detail to know about Lazarus: they’re widely believed to work
on behalf of North Korea (8,9). The crimes of North Korea go back decades. And when I tell you ‘crimes’, I don’t
mean it in a ‘North Korea bad. America good’ way. I mean North Korea’s literal involvement
in international crime like drug smuggling, counterfeiting, and insurance fraud (10). In 1974, under the leadership of Kim Jong
Un’s grandfather, Kim Il Sung, the North Korean government was strapped for cash for
its military programs and the lavish lifestyle of the leadership. So it opened the doors on a shiny new government
bureaucracy: ‘Room 39’ (11). Named for the original office number, ‘Room
39’ became a large operation under Kim Jong Il. Its task was the acquisition of hard currency
through international activity. Some of these activities included the legal
export of “exotic mushrooms, ginseng, and seaweed” (12), but also insurance fraud
on claims of industrial accidents, natural disasters, and inexplicable helicopter crashes
(10). The department also directed the production
and distribution of heroin, opium, meth, counterfeit cigarettes, weapons, and Viagra (10). Their most iconic scheme involved the production
of fake 100 dollar bills (13). And it’s suspected room 39 continues to
launder money through a chain of 150 North Korean themed restaurants across Southeast
Asia, where guests are served by women in traditional dress while enjoying dog meat
soup and photos on the wall of former president Clinton with King Jong Il (16;17)(11,p5). It’s all part of a larger so-called ‘revolutionary
fund’ and ‘court economy’ that’s carried on into the present day, utilizing front companies
and tens of thousands of North Koreans domestically and worldwide- raising slush funds for the
dear leader and top party officials to the tune of an estimated 500 million to 2 billion
dollars per year (13;14;15). But it’s important to caveat that most sourcing
on the illegal international operations of the North Korean regime date back between
2009 and 2011, during Kim Jong Il’s reign and before Kim Jong Un succeeded him in the
dynastic line. Which leads us back to the ransoming of computers
worldwide in 2017. Is it possible that upon seizing control after
his father’s death, Kim Jong Un directed these arms of his government to focus their
efforts on cybercrime- to achieve political ends and acquire hard currency through the
use of hacking? We have a couple examples. You might remember the 2014 hack of Sony pictures
around the release of ‘The Interview’, during which the Lazarus Group tried to undermine
a satirical film about Kim Jong Un by leaking a copy of the movie along with the personal
data of Sony employees. You might have also heard about their 2016
botched attempt to steal $1 billion from the Federal Reserve in New York. Both these examples led many to believe Kim
Jong Un was steering his outside operations towards cybercrime. And so when the copied code from a previous
Lazarus attack appeared in the Wannacry ransomware in 2017, many suspected North Korea might
have been behind the attack that crippled computers at hospitals and private companies
worldwide (20). Suspicions were backed up with some evidence
when cyber firms as well as the US and UK governments accused North Korea with a “very
high level of confidence” (18;19). Here’s how they and public reporting say
it happened: In August of 2017, former National Security
Agency contractor Harold Martin was arrested at his home in Maryland, accused of literally
carrying out 50 terabytes of classified NSA data in hard copies and on thumb drives to
be kept at his home, in his car, and in his backyard shed (21;22). Authorities suspected, though the evidence
has never bore out, that Mr. Martin had to do with a threat from an organization called
the shadow brokers. A year earlier, the mysterious organization
advertised online that they were selling, for $580 million dollars, stolen ‘cyber
weapons’ from the NSA. Among them, an exploit of Windows called Eternal
Blue which moves across local area networks and the internet- devastating because it could
infect computers on its own without a user accidentally downloading from a spammy website
or clicking a shady link (23). But when they failed to sell the stolen wares,
the Shadow Brokers dumped all their files onto the internet for anyone to download for
free. This included the potent NSA-developed cyberweapon
Eternal Blue (24). A month before the global ransomware attack,
bad actors worldwide had access. Now Microsoft had already taken on the task
of patching Windows 7, 8, and 10 after being tipped off about the leak of Eternalblue. However, Windows XP, a version still in use
by the UK’s National Health Service, was no longer supported with security patches
from Microsoft. So XP computers and any pre Windows 10 PCs
without the patch were vulnerable on the day of the attack: May 12 2017 (25). The first breakout was in Asia at 7:45 AM
GMT. The virus proceeded within 30 minutes over
LAN connections and internet to Latin America. Then within two hours to mainland Europe,
then North America (26). The ransomware was moving at lightning speed
as designed. But of course its most consequential impact
would be in the UK’s National Health Service. As money began to pour into the designated
Bitcoin wallet, surgeries and appointments cancelled- ambulances redirected, the system
braced itself for disruption lasting well into the weekend and beyond (4,p1). Until, and this is true, a man registered
a domain. Marcus Hutchins, a 22 year-old working for
Kryptos Logic was examining the ransomware code that afternoon when he noticed it was
linked to an unregistered domain. When he registered the domain, the virus stopped
spreading (27). That simple. Now, if an unregistered domain sounds a bit
amateur hour for a government-backed hacking organization, it’s a good moment to bring
up that some have speculated the attack was accidental or premature. Others have suggested it was a false flag
by another group to frame the North Koreans (18). But even if the public and private sector
consensus says all signs point to North Korea, it’s not that hard to see how this particular
kind of doubt rings true for many. After global panic and a quarter million disabled
machines, it all seems kind of pathetic and anticlimactic. A man in his bedroom at home stopped a group
that hacked Sony and almost swindled a billion from the Federal Reserve? All they nabbed that weekend was about 50,000
dollars, and every now and again someone drops another 8 cents, another 47 cents into the
BitCoin wallet. Doesn’t this all seem below a government? But this ignores one final detail: ’Criminal
Sovereignty’. It’s the name of a report from the Strategic
Studies Institute, and a concept tossed around by several journalists (11;28). Criminal Sovereignty describes the specific
way the North Korean government involves itself in crime. Think of a typical corrupt government somewhere
in the world. The government is either incapable of stopping
a criminal enterprise, or they’re paid off to turn a blind eye (think how former Mexican
President Pena Nieto took 100 million bucks from drug lord El Chapo) (29). In the worst cases, government officials and
criminal enterprises are intertwined. It recently came out that Brazil’s president
Bolsonaro, after running a campaign of anti corruption, has a son linked to a death squad
named “the crime bureau” (30). This corruption exemplifies crime infiltrating
governments. But at their essence, they’re two separate
things: government and criminal enterprise. But with North Korea, the government and criminal
enterprise are one in the same. The government bureaucracy is designed to
violate international law as a matter of course. When the North Koreans traffic drugs, counterfeit
money, hack computers, smuggle weapons, they aren’t corrupting legitimate government
functions, those are the functions. It uses its flag, its diplomatic immunities,
its sovereignty to carry out the business of keeping the regime afloat. The crime is the institution. So what connects a chain of money laundering
restaurants and indiscriminate ransomware attacks, besides that they’re bizarre and
petty, is that neither are below the heavily isolated and internationally sanctioned government. They are part of a quilt of illegal activity
used to keep the Kims comfortable and the nuclear program progressing. Kim Jong Un presents a smilier face than his
father to his nation, to South Korea, and to the wider world, but just as the execution
of his uncle shows the domestic brutality remains in his early regime, so too do various
hacks since his ascension demonstrate that while the tactics change, the international
criminality remains the same. 