- [Kento Bento] I'm Kento Bento. This video is made possible by Dashlane. Download Dashlane for free if you never wanna lose another password again at the link in the description. Bangladesh, February 7th, 2016. The director of the Bangladesh Central Bank
got off the elevator on the ninth floor and headed to the back office of the
accounts and budgeting department. This was the most restricted
part of the building. He was there to deal with a problem, one that
had been plaguing the office for the last few days. You see, the printer wasn't working. This was kind of a big deal.
It was causing a real disruption. The automated printer, which was
hooked up to the bank's software, was supposed to work around the clock 24/7,
printing out the banks transaction reports in real-time. Due to this technical glitch, however,
the printer tray remained empty. Much of the day was spent
trying to fix the issue, and after a great deal of
effort, there was success. They were able to restart the printer. And so, the backlog of transaction reports
started rolling out, one by one. Now, it soon become apparent
that something wasn't quite right. There were more statements than expected. When they took a closer look, they found 35 suspicious payment orders
for what were ridiculously large sums of money. Having supposedly been transferred from the Bangladesh Bank's own account to various other accounts
in other countries. Certainly, no one from
their bank had authorized it and the SWIFT security system
in place was unbreachable. As the director sifted through
the suspicious transfer requests, the true scale of the situation started dawning on him. The transfers totalled to
almost one billion US dollars, an absurd amount, a significant
chunk of the nation's reserves. Where were they going? Who was responsible? Panic ensued as the workers
scrambled to stop the payments. But, it was likely too late. The ill-timed printer malfunction from earlier
had caused an unfortunate delay in their response. It seemed Bangladesh had
just lost a billion dollars. But how? This happened in February 2016, but what led to this moment actually started nine months earlier. Philippines, May, 2015. Over 3000 kilometers away, a group of men
enter the Jupiter Street branch of the RCBC Bank, just outside Manila, and opened four
bank accounts with just $500 inside. The men then left, never to return. With their accounts left
seemingly abandoned. Now, returning to Bangladesh, the country was becoming one of the
fastest growing economies in the world. Their central bank sat in the financial
district of the capital, Dhaka, a chaotic city, with almost 20 million people. But, despite all this rapid growth,
it was a nation that could ill afford to lose one billion dollars of taxpayers' money. Fast-forward, January 2016,
a month before the incident. An employee at the Bangladesh Bank,
was checking his mail at work. Now, nothing seemed out of the ordinary,
he thought nothing of it, but he went home that night not realizing he had just set in motion events that
would soon shock the nation's banking system, if not the world. You see, he had inadvertently
clicked on an infected email, one that immediately began
installing a malicious program in the central bank's computer systems. This malware would allow intruders
to enter the network and gain access to the inner workings of the Bangladesh Bank. Hiding in plain sight, these intruders could now spy on workers and study the bank's operational procedures. And that's what they did. It was now just a matter of time. A month later, on a Thursday, as the
bank was shutting down for the weekend, which in Muslim-majority
countries like Bangladesh, tends to be on a Friday and Saturday,
instead of a Saturday and Sunday. The intruders once again
entered the system. But it was for the last time, because
this was what it was all leading to. Now, they were in the system, but manipulating international money transfers was a whole nother thing. SWIFT, you may have heard, is a global payment network enabling financial transactions to be sent in a secure and reliable way, using military grade security designed to be unbreachable. Just to be clear, SWIFT does not
facilitate the transfer of actual funds,  but rather it sends the trusted payment
orders between accounts, which the banks then act on. This is the standard in
international banking. And, this is partly why bank hackers
usually focus on stealing the login credentials of individual bank account holders, rather
than focusing on the banks themselves. But, it wasn't the case
here, not for this group. Their target was the institution. Using the bank's legitimate SWIFT
credentials that they collected from the malware, they were able to take control of the SWIFT
terminals, as if they were legitimate bank employees. Yes, SWIFT itself is safe and secure, but the banks using them first needed to be responsible
for their individual cyber security, on their end. If their security happened to be lacking,
as in the case with many developing nations, SWIFT could actually be used against them. And, that's what was happening here. 35 phony transfer requests, totalling
$951 million, was by now being sent via SWIFT to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Okay, but why New York? Well, because the Bangladesh
Bank owns an account there with billions of dollars on deposit
meant for international settlements. The details of the requests
sent from Bangladesh were to transfer the funds from New York
to various accounts set up across Asia. I'll get to that part soon. Now, with that they were done.
In and out in just hours. The next day, Friday, New York City. One of the world's
biggest financial centres. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York
was busy processing Bangladesh's payment orders, or supposed payment orders. The Fed, renowned for it's security,
initially had no cause to stop the transfers, because SWIFT instructions are
legitimate, they're trusted. So, oblivious to the deception, they
began processing their requests. Sunday morning, the
Bangladesh Bank employees, back from the weekend, were now
trying to fix their darn printer problem. The automated printer connected to the SWIFT
network hadn't been working the last days. And, the usual printouts of real-time
transfer confirmations were backlogged. Of course, this was the most
unfortunate time for a technical glitch, except it wasn't really
a technical glitch. The hackers had indeed
taken additional steps in preventing confirmation
messages from revealing their theft. Wiping out evidence
from the SWIFT database, and intentionally crashing
the automated printer. This had bought them
some much needed time. Now, meanwhile, in Sri Lanka, $20 million arrived in a Pan Asia Bank account
of a company called the Shalika Foundation, sent from the Federal
Reserve Bank in New York. This, of course, was just one of
35 transfers making its way to Asia. Right back in Bangladesh, the workers
had now finally got the printer working and they were sorting through
the transfer requests. Panic quickly ensued as they realized 35 payment orders were made, totalling to almost one billion dollars. They immediately tried to send a stop payment
order to the New York Fed, but it was a Sunday and there was no one there to respond. By the time New York staff would return
on the Monday, it would've surely been too late. Now, little did they know, they had actually
caught a lucky break, because it turned out the automated system in New York had
flagged 30 of the transactions for manual review. By complete luck, one of the words on the SWIFT order happened to match the name of a shipping company that had been blacklisted for evading
US sanctions against Iran, pure coincidence. This would prove
devastating for the hackers. As $870 million worth of
transfers were now blocked. Later, when staff took a closer look,
they noticed several red flags. The unusually high number
of payment instructions, the large transfers to private
entities rather than banks, and the ridiculously large total. At this point, they had to
seek clarification from Bangladesh. And, after getting word of
their stop payment order, the transfers were shut down. It was over, the gig was up. Or was it? Yes, 30 of the transactions, worth
$870 million, would never be seen by hackers, but there were still
five transactions left. The remaining 101 million, which the
fed's automated system failed to pick up on, and which was still a heck of a lot
of money, had gotten through. Where did these five end up? The first transfer, Sri Lanka. $20 million, as we know, reached an account
in the Pan Asia Bank via Deutsche Bank, which was the routing bank. Intended for a company called
the Shalika Foundation. This was a supposed Sri Lankan non-profit. Now, an observant employee
at the Pan Asia Bank noticed something odd, $20 million was an unusually large
amount for such a small NGO, not to mention for the
country of Sri Lanka. This employee then sent the transaction
back to Deutsche Bank for verification. So, now Germany, Frankfurt, the payment order,
just like in New York, was being reviewed. And, just like New York,
there were red flags. Such as this one, spelling
foundation as fandation. These suspicions were soon reaffirmed, and ultimately it turned out, no surprise,
that this Shalika Fandation was indeed a fake company. The money was then rerouted back
to the Bangladesh Bank's New York account. Then there were four, $81 million dollars. But, we won't drag this out because these
four were all sent not just to the same country, not just to the same bank, but to the same branch. The Jupiter Street branch of the RCBC Bank,
just outside Manila, in the Philippines. Four accounts had laid
dormant for nine months with just $500 inside, untouched. Until a sudden cash
infusion of $81 million. These sudden bursts should've
triggered an alert from RCBC but for whatever reason,
it slid under the radar. And, indeed, the accounts were later
found to be under fictitious identities. From there, the money was quickly
withdrawn and laundered through casinos. Where the electronic money transfers
were converted to hard untraceable cash. The Bangladesh Bank did
try to stop the transfers, but timing was just not on their side. The stop order was not
received by RCBC Bank on the expected Monday, because
Monday was Chinese New Year. A non-working holiday in the Philippines. By now you're probably
noticing a trend here. Every step of the way there were
delays that benefited the hackers. And, this was by design. A remarkably well timed attack. On Thursday evening
they entered the system at the start of the Bangladesh
weekend when the bank is closing. On Friday, the New York Fed tries to clarify
the requests with Bangladesh, but no one's there. On Sunday, Bangladesh staff
return from the weekend but can't get through to New York
as it's now the weekend in the US. On Monday, the Fed finally
gets the orders to stop the transfers, but not the Philippines because it just
so happened to be Chinese New Year there. And, only on Tuesday,
five days after the heist, that RCBC staff find out about
the fraudulent transfers. But, by then it was too late. Now, two Chinese men, Ding
and Gao, were eventually found to be responsible for setting up
the fake RCBC accounts in the Philippines. They turned out to be just middlemen. But, they were still a
crucial part of the operation. And, investigators hoped questioning
them would lead to the true culprits. Unfortunately, before the Bangladesh authorities
were able to apprehend them, they left the country, Boarding flights to Macau, a
special administrative region of China where it was then
impossible to track them. And so, with the remaining four transfers,
the hackers were able to net $81 million. Not quite the original
sum, but still enough, by some metrics, to be considered
the single biggest bank heist in history. Now, despite the attackers best efforts
at removing evidence from the bank's systems, cybersecurity experts were
still able to analyze the malware. What they found were similarities in the techniques and tools used between the Bangladesh Bank heist  and many other cyber attacks on
financial institutions around the world. Which means that, this one particular group had very likely been responsible for a series of global attacks. This group was dubbed Lazarus. But, there was more. As experts dug deeper, combing
through the server logs of recent attacks, they found something even more unexpected. An IP address connecting Lazarus
to a particular nation state. For a brief moment they had
failed to cover their tracks. And the logs had indicated
that the attack servers they used had been accessed at
least once from a North Korean IP address. There was also Korean language found
embedded in the computer code. Now, it is important to note, that it is
possible that North Korea was framed, with the attackers leaving behind purportedly solid evidence in order to mislead investigators. But, according to the majority
of cybersecurity experts, it is almost certain that
North Korea was behind the attacks. And, it wasn't just attacks
on financial institutions, they were also revealed to be responsible for many cyber terrorism and cyber espionage campaigns against the South Korean government
and various South Korean infrastructures. Then there's the Sony
Pictures hack of 2014. One of the biggest corporate
breaches in history. Lazarus had taken great exception
to the plot of the film 'The Interview', where the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Un,
was targeted for assassination by the CIA. Cinemas across the US were threatened
with terrorist attacks if the film wasn't pulled. North Korea, of course,
denied any responsibility. But, it seemed fairly obvious that this group
was actively targeting known enemies of the State. Now, as for Lazarus' banking exploits, like the
Bangladesh incident, the attacks were just the start. They had to ensure the money would
then get to the intended location. And, the way they did that was to have the stolen funds moved through places like Macau, which in particular, is known to be North Korea's financial
point of contact with the outside world. We know, thanks to the two Chinese middlemen, that
that's exactly where the Bangladesh funds ended up. And, from there, it wouldn't have been hard for the money to be wired directly to Pyongyang. Proceeds would then
have likely gone towards advancing their nuclear program, funding the lifestyles of the elite, and propping up their economy. All this, quite possibly representing, a significant percentage of the country's current GDP. If this is all accurate, and North Korea
is indeed behind these attacks, the international implications would be profound. Especially with the recent developments. As this would be the first known
case of a nation state robbing banks. From there, perhaps, anything is possible. They could hack political campaigns, weapons systems, civilian bank accounts, or even YouTube accounts who have
made content they may find unfavorable. 