Is there anything more terrifying than an omnipotent being
who believes in nothing? An all powerful villain whose only love in his own blood soaked life is the literal manifestation
of life's absence. A god infatuated with death,
armed with the ability to cause it on a universal
scale with the snap (snaps) of his fingers. That's what Marvel's 1991 comic
event The Infinity Gauntlet attempted to explore with a
crazy, love struck purple alien harnessing the immeasurable power of all six infinity gems together. Earth's mightiest heroes,
and indeed the universe's most powerful cosmic beings as well, are just no match for the
mad titan who can bend all of reality to fit his wishes. I have to be honest here though, I'm not the biggest fan of this story. It's a little too long and
convoluted for my liking, but it does have some great artwork and some really interesting
themes to analyze. It reveals Thanos to
be a deeply conflicted, three dimensional character. One who, in less competent
hands, could be portrayed as oh, I don't know,
random Spider-man villain with the most unoriginal
personal vehicle imaginable. It's just a helicopter with
his name written on it, in like Helvetica. Who is responsible for this? They should pay for their crimes! But, in the hands of his creator, Jim Starlin, Thanos' stories dive into some deep, complex territory. For all the story
problems I personally have towards The Infinity Gauntlet event, Starlin at least continued
to craft a villain who is sometimes sympathetic, infuriating, and genuinely frightening. He can flip from calm and contemplative to lashing out with
unmatched rage over the span of just a few panels and it feels organic. Every action and exchange is driven by Thanos' personal
philosophy of the universe. (eery music) How are you doing you wonderful nerds? Scott here, and Thanos is often
cited as being a nihilist. This isn't speculation
either, it's literally written on his forehead on the opening splash page of the second issue of The
Infinity Gauntlet series. Painting with broad strokes here, the philosophical view
of nihilism is the idea that life has no intrinsic
value or meaning. Not only is there no grand plan
for our own individual lives but it's pointless to try and
construct one as a substitute. Life is trivial. Thanos sees it as a burden. In fact, this idea is taken
to its logical extreme with the mad titan who loves, worships, and builds shrines to
the illiteral embodiment of death in the Marvel Universe. And when I say he loves death, I mean that he's in love with Death. The Infinity Gauntlet comic only happens because Thanos is trying to
impress Death and win her love. But, there's already a problem here. Thanos' belief in nihilism
faces a massive contradiction, and to explain why we need to explore the context surrounding
Thanos' ultimate mission. A lot of the lead up to
the Infinity Gauntlet event takes place in the pages
of Silver Surfer comics. Thanos, who was dead at this point in time for reasons too complicated to get into, just Google it I guess, is brought back to life by
Mistress Death to correct what she sees as a great
imbalance in the universe. Thanos explains that with medical and scientific breakthroughs, lifespans have been dramatically expanded. With humans specifically,
Thanos tells the Silver Surfer that more than half of the
humans ever born on this planet are presently alive right
this moment leading Earth to become criminally overpopulated. With all the terrible
byproducts of human life, like pollution and nuclear
waste, Thanos claims that Earth is a world rushing on its way to desolation and doom. The harm we do to our plan will eventually and inevitably be our downfall. Even if we expand to other planets, the universe's resources are finite. If left unchecked, populations
will grow uncontrollably, life will continue to
flourish until it doesn't, until it can no longer support itself. The pendulum will swing from
one extreme to the other, from an overabundance of
life to no life whatsoever. This is why Mistress Death
only asks Thanos to kill half of the populace of the
universe and not all of it. Sure, Death would enjoy
a massive body count all at once but then what? Death needs life to continue so there can be a constant stream of souls for her to harvest. Thanos was more than capable
of accomplishing this feat without the power of the
infinity gauntlet on his arm, but he wanted to wipe
out populations quickly before any heroes could intervene and that is what sparks the
Infinity Gauntlet storyline with Thanos completing
his promise to Death. In three powerful panels, the
mad titan casually snuffs out half of the life in the
entire universe with a snap of his fingers, like they were nothing. Death on a grand scale. Immeasurable losses of
life as if each being was nothing more than
a tiny momentary speck within an indifferent universe. Hold on, where have I heard that before? - Tiny, momentary specks
within an indifferent universe. - Wait a minute, have we
already had a nihilistic Thanos movie disguised as
a Doctor Strange movie? If we peel away the rest
of Kaecilius' crusty face will we find the purple
mug of the mad titan? Probably not, although there's no way that wasn't a fan theory written about on some obnoxious nerd culture
website with a title like, super hype news dot website? Plus Kaecilius has a
slightly different view of death than Thanos. - Time is an insult, death is an insult. - In fact, Kaecilius' whole
goal is to prevent death, to summon Dormammu and create
a world of eternal life. - This world doesn't have to die Doctor, we can all live forever. - That wouldn't really fly
with Thanos' view of death as something to be reverred, besides Kaecilius was only echoing a line said earlier in the
movie by none other than- - We are made of matter and nothing more. You're just another tiny, momentary speck within an indifferent universe. - This, sorry, this is
actually an incredible moment in the Doctor Strange movie
and it completely changed my opinion of the film when
I watched it again recently. Up until this point in the
film, we see scene after scene, conversation after
conversation, of Stephen Strange being a self-absorbed, ego maniac. He one ups and humiliates other doctors. He believes his work to be
more critical than others. He obsesses over both
maintaining his perfect record and only undertaking
impressive medical cases. Hell, his response to the
surgery performed on his hands when he wakes up after his
life altering car crash was... - I could have done better. - Time and time again,
we're shown his arrogance and how highly Strange thinks of himself, but when he meets the Ancient One he finally reveals his
true existential anxiety that deep down life is meaningless, his life is meaningless. The Ancient One responds with a simple, yet kind of profound statement. - You think too little of yourself. - Oh, you think you
see through me, do you? Well, you don't. - I promise this relates back to Thanos but just indulge me for a few minutes. The reason I'm talking
about Doctor Strange, and spoilers by the way- I'm really bad about that. Is because I told my friend,
Professor Mark D. White, that I wanted to make this video. You might recognize his name from working on books like Avengers and Philosophy, Batman and Philosophy,
Superman and Philosophy, Watchmen and Philosophy,
and a bunch of other books that let you know the guy
is a brilliant super nerd. In his infinite kindness,
he sent me an advanced copy of Doctor Strange and Philosophy, thinking that it would help me write this piece about Thanos. And he was right, one chapter
even specifically talks about Strange's journey away
from his own nihilistic mindset and it has interesting
parallels to Thanos' arc. As we saw earlier, the arrogant
Stephen Strange believes that life has no meaning, we're all just momentary specks and all that. As author Paul DiGiorgio
writes, Strange was quote, "Caught in the paradox of
saying life had no meaning "while also believing that his life "had more meaning than anyone else." This is the same mindset we see
in Thanos, his ego runs wild in the pages of The
Infinity Gauntlet story. Plus, there was also that one time where he grabbed a helicopter
and wrote his name on it for no discernible reason. What a cool idea! There was even another
comic that implied Thanos was only infatuated with
Death because his own namesake literally translates to death, so maybe he's just obsessed with himself? And perhaps that's rather fitting. After the Ancient One tells Strange to drop his own ego countless
time throughout the film, she delivers this speech as her
final words before she dies. - Death is what gives life meaning, to know your days are
numbered, your time is short. You'd think after all
this time I'd be ready, but look at me. Stretching one moment out into a thousand just so that I can watch the snow. - Death is what gives life meaning, and in Thanos' case, this is literal. Death is the being who brought him back and imbued his life with
meaning and Thanos knows this. He knew this before he was
even raised from the dead. He understood that his
life would only be restored under the condition that he would fulfill Death's one and only request. How exactly can that mix
with his nihilistic views? How can he believe that
life has no meaning when Thanos himself was
given life explicitly so he could fulfill a
specific role in the universe? Now, I wanna be clear here. I'm not saying that this
logical inconsistency with Thanos' thinking is bad, it's not. If Thanos was strict nihilist who wanted to end life simply because he
didn't see the value in it, then he'd be kind of a boring
character in my opinion. These contradictions,
the conflicted mindset of the mad titan, is what transforms him from yet another cookie cutter villain to one who actually has depth. He's flawed, he's paranoid,
he acts inconsistently out of love for someone who
consistently scorns him, and he grows from it. In the excellent, albeit
not actually canon, mini-series Marvel Universe The End, Thanos realizes an outcome where he makes the entire
universe blink out of existence. Not just the sentient life in it but the stars, planets, everything. At first, he basks in
the glory of his triumph, the infinite black void is a testament to the power of Thanos. But he quickly learns that
ruling over absolute nothingness might be a secure empire, sure, but without life what would be its value? Value, it took Thanos
swallowing up the entirety of all that is to realize that life does have inherent value. He should know, he's the prime example. Thanos was resurrected to kill half of the population of the universe. Not for fun, but for a purpose, to protect life from
the dangers it creates. Fittingly, with our comparison
to Doctor Strange earlier, Thanos describes his own
role as that of a doctor cutting away the cancer
to save the patient. Yet, when he finally ends
all life except himself, he repeats this imagery
but realizes that it is he who is the cancer that must be
eradicated from the universe. In one final act, Thanos becomes that healer he always thought he was. He restores every inch
of the Marvel Universe with one exception, himself. Thanos, the ultimate
nihilist, sacrifices himself to restore all other life in the universe. Thanos could have
comfortably lived forever in the vast emptiness of the
existence that he created, but while a life that lasts
forever may be significant, a life that ends is more meaningful. As author George A.
Dunn beautifully writes, "Impermanence is a feature,
not a bug, of human existence." And for all of Thanos' power,
this conflicted nihilist is actually pretty human after all. (sad piano music) And of course, I wanna
give a huge shout out to our Patrons for supporting
these videos that we make, over at Patreon.com/NerdSync. Especially Cristoffer
Lange, Everett Parrott, and Sonali Manka for giving more money than you should, to be honest. I love you guys, I will
never understand you, but I really do appreciate it (laughs). If you want your name here
on this ever growing wall of beautiful people, head on
over to Patreon.com/NerdSync. Click or tap right here for a video that YouTube's mysterious algorithm thinks that you'll enjoy. I have no idea what it is,
but I'm sure it's great. And if this is your first
time hanging out with us here at NerdSync, hit that big
sexy subscribe button, we'd love to have you around. My name is Scott, reminding
you to read between the panels and grow smarter through comics. See ya. Did I do it? 