Today I am going to be taking a look at my
art from second grade. Wow. That is… that is something. Let’s do it. So before we get into the art itself, let’s
just take a look at this portfolio. I mean… we have my name, “Kasey G.”
Obviously because I am “Kasey G.” But we also have, what is this, a peace sign,
we have a yin yang, and we have Pikachu saying “Pikachu”, and a Pokeball going after
it and it says “Pokeball go!” This screams the 90’s. We have peace signs,yin yangs, and… and
a Pokemon. Doesn’t get anymore 90’s than this. All right. The first piece. Oh boy. Our first piece we have is this…. carnival sort of sorta situation. We have a horse, we have a ferris wheel, we
have… pencil crayons…? That’s a Canadian term. I call them colored pencils. Or are they crayons. I have no idea. It’s laminated. It’s beautiful. We have a pink horse with yellow details. We have a bunny…. Don’t know what that is. What, is that a lizard? Hot dogs for $1.50, we have a cotton candy
stand. Honestly this screams an ant illustration
to me. I don’t know if I have time for that for
this video, but honestly… I can see this being an ant illustration because
this is just kind of boring as far as art goes. But there you go. Next up is- oh wow, do I have a story for
this piece. Oh it’s upside down. Sorry second grade self. Okay so in the back we have some literature. So let me just read that. “Star a Stripes.” How American. “My goal for this project was to make the
focal point.” I mean that’s the first sentence of this
three sentence statement. “My focal point is the star in the middle.” I mean, obviously, thank you. “The ribbons are coming from the star and
the big star is glittery.” *Kasey soaks that all in for a moment.*
Second graders… huh. Okay obviously I do have a little story behind
this… art piece. So my art teacher approached me. I think she actually approached me for the
horse piece, and she was like “Hey! We want you to be in this like art gallery
thing for children.” And I was like “I want this piece to be
shown because it’s glittery and shiny, and I’m a second grader and I like shiny things.” And she was like “Are you sure you want
this piece? You should probably do this other piece.” And I was like “No. This one’s shiny. I want it.” So this piece was in the gallery and… it’s
so weird that like now I can see how disappointed she was. And even then I kind of knew how disappointed
she was. But I wanted the shiny glittery piece to be
in the gallery, and I saw how simple and stupid it was amungst all the other talented art
and I was like… “Big yikes.” as a second grader. So yeah, that’s this piece so… uh… yeah… Alright. Next up we have this running man situation,
where it looks like I copied… or did like a crayon- Oh my God. There is sparkles from the star thing all
over my desk. I am going to die. Anyways, here’s the little man we traced
over. It’s like when you get a leaf on the piece
of paper and you get a crayon and you trace over it using the texture. I’m not sure…. The reason behind this project. Alright. Here’s my name. I was self absorbed then, and I’m self absorbed
now. Don’t know why there is a sock on the “K”
when everything else is floral themed. (Sock Kasey, duh.) I have no idea. Next up we have this very tie-dye looking...
paw print sort of situation. In the back we have some words, so let’s
just read that really quick. Shall we? “The title of my artwork is ‘Paws on Tie-dye.’ The media I used were acrylic paint oil pastels. My goal for this project is to make it look
good no matter what it is.” Oh my god if that isn’t a mood. “One discover I made was that I can make
a picture look good.” Wow. My confidence as a second grader, I wish I
had that now. So yeah… thats… thats “Paws on Tie-dye.” Wow. Next up we have… nothing written about this
piece, but it looks like a landscape of a church in a field. I’m from Tennessee, so I’m definitely
used to like churches and fields. So this looks like a pencil portrait. We have… a tree in the background, a fence,
we have a church, a field, maybe like a playground, and- Oh my God. The sparkles from the stars are everywhere. (つ•̀ᴥ•́)つ*:･ﾟ✧ Our next piece is a Goosebumps fanart sort
of parody that says “The Scarecrow walks at Midnight.” And we have like a cornfield, and a tree. We have this scarecrow like “Peek-a-boo.” But also the scarecrow is busting out of this
window… via this… ladder? I don’t know what’s happening. But that’s pretty funny. I mean… if this art doesn’t age me, I
don’t know what does. So next up we have a comic page, and it says
here “Art is pictures, clothes, presents, and getting them makes me happy.” even though we have a picture of a frowning…
uhm… octopus? Not really sure what’s happening here, but
on the back of this picture we have a- It’s me I guess. Wearing an Old Navy shirt, and if that doesn’t
tell you anything about where I shopped as a child… So next up we have this blue horse on a very
abstract background. I wonder if this was a study of a previous
artist because there’s no way in heck I made this up as a child. So there you go. I love the little white square at the bottom
that’s like “Uhm. By the way, this was done by Kasey.” So there’s that. Next up we have a color wheel... Not much to say about that. It’s a color wheel. I actually think this was the artwork at our
desk. I don’t know about you guys but at our desks
we created name tags and then we decorated them how we wanted to. So again we have Ash Ketchums hat, yin yang,
peace sign, rainbow, Pokeball, smiley face, and Pikachu… if you didn’t know, that
is Pikachu. A very 90’s label, so… there you go. Next up we have this robotic…. Mouse? What is happening here. We have like a light shining down on this
mouse. It looks very… robotic. I mean, this is pretty interesting as far
as art pieces go for a child. I wonder if I made this up. I don’t know if I was inspired by something. Very curious about this ray of light coming-
Oh wait. This is actually a rabbit. I thought it was a mouse because the ears
were so small. This is definitely a rabbit. So we have a robotic rabbit in what seems
to be... a snowy landscape with just a little bit of grass, and… sun shining on it. So there’s that… whatever that is. Okay… And last but not least, we have... a self
portrait. Oh it says “Pokemon” on the shirt. I don’t have a Pokemon shirt at this point. But it’s really funny. Is this done on like a paper bag? I’m really not sure what… what this paper
is. Is it pastel? Maybe. I don’t have pastel, but I can definitely
recreate this with watercolor, but… this is terrifying. But I definitely think we could- I think this
is a paper bag because look, we have this like… this bent shape thing over here. That’s really interesting. Anyways… terrifying. But interesting. So… there is our self portaif when I was
nine years old. So out of the images that I think it would
be fun to recreate today, I think it would be really fun to do this carnival scene. Specifically because I think it would be really
done as an ant illustration, and I think that really reflects… I don’t know. What I am today as compared to… 20 years ago… oh gosh. Next up I do think this robotic rabbit is
really fun. I think this would be... really interesting
to see what I do with today. So I think this would be another fun illustration
to recreate. And of course the self portrait! How do I draw myself today, 20 years later. Hopefully not like this. This is terrifying. I will be giving myself a Pokemon shirt, so
we will see what I will do with that. So yeah. I think these three pieces will be really
fun to recreate 20 years later. So let’s do it. Let’s get to drawing. Here we go. The carousel. So like I mentioned when I saw this illustration,
I just saw how open it was and how plain and boring… wow that sounds really rude. I just thought “It’s a carousel.” Like.. there it is. It’s not doing anything. There’s not anything about it that’s very
exciting. And I’ll be honest, maybe I did use this
as an excuse to make an ant illustration because I did have a carnival, or like a county fair
as one of my to-do ant illustrations. So when I saw this carousel I thought “Ant
Illustration.” So if you are new to my channel and don’t
know what an ant illustration is, its where I draw… I don’t know, 50 or more or so ants in an
illustration. It’s kind of like a “Where’s Waldo”
but with bugs. I just cram as many ants as I can in an illustration,
and they’re really cute and silly… and hectic, and busy, and just cute and adorable,
and simple yet complicated… Basically it’s just something I really enjoy
drawing and one day it’s going to be a book. One day…. One day. Okay, so now that I’ve talked about what
an ant illustration is and all of my regular viewers are bored out of your mind (Try typing
all of this.), let’s talk about this particular ant illustration. So obviously, I had to take a lot of inspiration
from my childhood drawing of a carousel. And I don’t know if this is- hold on let
me google. I’ve done a lot of “Googling”, but let
me see... if this is something we copied in class basically. Okay so I don’t see anything directly…
really close to what I drew as a child. So I don’t know if our art teacher supplied
us with a reference. Basically when it comes to all of the art
as a nine-year-old, I just assume that... they did not come out of my head and we copied
things because, I don’t know about you guys, but I wasn’t confident in coming up with
my own illustrations and poses and all of this stuff until I was a lot older. And I’m talking like… I don’t know. Probably my very late teens? Maybe mid to late teens. And speaking of, can I just say really quick,
looking at these drawings that I did as a nine-year-old, I’m really impressed with
a lot of you guys that send me your art and you’re like “Hey, I’m 10!” and I’m
like “WHAT?! You’re 10 and you drew THAT?” So… looking at my nine-year-old drawings,
it’s almost embarrassing because you guys are so good these days. Like you guys have so many inspirations and
so many tools and tutorials available to you. I’m jealous. Okay, but getting back to the drawing. So obviously the main focus of this illustration
was going to be the carousel, but being in the ant illustration, I had to do a whole
scene of a carnival/ country fair. And I will say I’m a little regretful that
I didn’t copy the colors of my carousel. I have blue and red for the top of the carousel,
but I did think that yellow and purple would be a little brighter and pop off the page
a little bit more. Especially because I was going to be making
a dirt brown ground. I wanted to make sure everything else was
a little more colorful. So the concession stands and games I made
sure to be while with a little bit of red to make sure it was as bright as possible,
but I didn’t want the carousel to be the exact same thing because I did want a variety
of colors and I wanted this to be bright and fun to represent the vibe of a country fair. So I made sure to use a lot of colors even
though, like I said, the ground was this dirt brown which really brought things down a little
bit. I probably should have put more balloons throughout
this illustration to be able to put a lot of color in here. Something I kind of regret not doing in this
illustration was giving an ant or two like this really big plushie to walk around with
because it was a prize that they won at a game. Which would be the perfect tie-in because,
you guys, today is the LAST DAY you can buy an Ant Plushie! (Do it.) Follow the link in the description if you
want to get an ant plushie. Today is the last day. You cannot get another ant plushie after today. It is a limited release, so get yourself an
ant plushie while you can. They’re adorable and you will regret it. Anyways. While I was coloring this I regretted not
giving one of the ant a giant plushie to carry around. But I mean that’s like.. The smallest detail. Overall I’m really happy with how this illustration
turned out. It really captured, I think, a fair vibe. We have the carousel in the background, we
have our food and games stands. Including a six- legged hotdog... I don’t know, sign? To represent bug life, but also it’s a hot-dog. Oh I didn’t mention instead of a petting
zoo, which you usually find at a fair, we have a slime… area? Because in this bug world I wasn’t really
sure what an animal would be… and it felt wrong making any other sort of bug or just
like, weird creature an animal. I know slugs and snails aren’t bugs, but
they’re like in the creepy crawly category. So I thought it would be really fun to, instead
of having a petting zoo, we had like a slime area. So we have ants touching their eyes and playing
in the slime, but also having conversations with them. And of course our carousel, instead of having
horses, we have a variety of bugs. Which is also kind of weird, but also freaking
adorable. And I don’t know why, but my most favorite
part of this illustration… I don’t know why, it’s the porta potties
in the top left corner! We have our porta potties, because when you
go to a country fair they aren’t going to have toilets. Overall I am super happy with this ant illustration,
and I think as a child I would absolutely love something like this. So it’s almost like going back in time and
just creating something for my child self. And honestly, I’m a child at heart. So there you go. There is our ant illustration. The Rabbit. So… for this rabbit illustration, I feel
like there was a lot to consider. Looking at this illustration from my childhood,
it’s just… what… a very simple illustration of a rabbit that is a robot. But at the same time as I looked at this Illustration,
I felt like there was a lot more there than there was on the surface. So.. sure we have this robotic rabbit, and
as a child… as someone who doesn’t know how to draw a robot, there’s a lot of exposed
gears… and mechanics, and other things. I mean, the eyeballs are made out of screws,
but they’re like popping out of his head. So it kind of looks like he’s dying or something. Like… I don’t know what’s going on with this
illustration. I can only assume that it’s simple a robotic
rabbit. But as someone who needs to over-analyze things,
I can’t help but think “Why are this rabbit's gears exposed? Why are the screw eyes popping out of its
head? There must be more to the story, right?” These days I love making more of a story out
of my illustrations than just simply drawing a robotic rabbit, so I really had to analyze
this and think what was going on here. So I may have made a lot of adjustments and
additions to it as an adult illustrator. So… here we go. So this is a robotic rabbit, and obviously
I have most of the gears and other things covered by metal, because robots- I think
it would be foolished to have their insides exposed. As a human, having your insides exposed isn’t… ideal. So, having your gears and such exposed only
means one thing as a robot, right? It probably means you’re probably damaged
and there’s probably metal plates and like your skin is missing, so maybe this rabbit
has been attacked in some way. So… I don’t know why there would be a robotic
rabbit in the world… like what- why- what’s the meaning of this? I have no idea. So let’s just imagine we live the future
where our animals are robots for some reason. I don’t know. I think there’s a video game about that,
but I have no idea. So this rabbit has been attacked probably
by a robotic wolf. So, it’s thigh is exposed. It’s missing part of its arm, exposing some
wiring. One of its ears has been quite destroyed. And speaking of ears, I decided that to make
this animal more of an animal, I thought it would be really interesting, because as a
robot, obviously a human has made this robotic animal- Ro-bat-ic Animal. Hah. (She said it funny.) So to make this robotic animal more animal
like, maybe the humans that made it have… put some animal flesh on it. So the ears of this robotic rabbit are either
actual ears from a robot, or they’re just make out of like the skin or pelt of an actual
rabbit. I thought that would be really interesting
because otherwise an animal would have no interest in attacking this animal because
it would just be another robot. But if it smelt like a rabbit, hence the rabbit
pelt... or fur... or skin... or whatever on the ears, then- But at the same time, why
would a robotic wolf even be attacking a robot rabbit? Look, I’m not here to question my nine-year-old
self in creating a robotic rabbit. I’m just here to... have too much fun in
redesigning a robotic rabbit, and thinking too hard on why a robotic rabbit even exists. Oh, and one big thing I changed on this illustration
is instead of having a ray of light coming down from what I can only assume is the spring
light coming into this forestry wintery scene, I looked up if winter storms were a thing,
because I think I’ve heard of that. So yes, lightning during a snowstorm is a
very rare thing, but it’s possible. So I thought it would be really interesting
to include a thunder cloud instead of sun coming down, because I mean… that ray of
light stops abruptly, so… who are you to say that’s not lightning, am I right? I guess also while I was creating this, I
was thinking that maybe the rabbit was struck by lightning, because it is a metal being,
and lightning would probably go towards this creative that’s made out of metal. I think that was my original idea, but then
I also got distracted by the whole flesh-ear thing, and like a metal wolf and all this
stuff, but basically I thought it would be more fun to have a lightning cloud instead
of having this random ray of light that stops abruptly. Long story short, I like this metal rabbit. The Portrait. So for this illustration I had a few thoughts
pop into my head. So, at first I thought it would be really
interesting to recreate this illustration as an actual real, like, life like portrait
of myself. But you guys, I’m going to be honest. The last time I attempted a realistic portrait
of myself was the 500 Drawing Prompts… uh… video… which was what? Over a year ago at this point. I’m not really sure. I attempted a realistic portrait of myself
with watercolor, which I’ve never done. It was horrible, and I haven’t done it since. So obviously with zero practice of realistic
portraits with watercolor, I am going to be no better than I was a year ago, so I thought
“You know, if this is a representation of the way I draw now compared to way I drew
20 years ago, It would be stupid to something that I don’t normally do.” So what was the point other than to challenge
myself to do realism, which would be a whole video on it’s own. So I will embarrass myself another time. For now, this is the way I do portraits. I do an illustrative cartoony sort of style. That’s my style of drawing now, so that’s
what I did. And of course originally I was going to do
a normal bust drawing that I did 20 years ago, but then I got really distracted and
just got really carried away I think with drawing myself like... thigh up? I just think that busts are fine, and they’re
really fun if you can make them really fun (Really now?), but I didn’t think that would
be fun for this drawing video.. Thing. I thought it would be really interesting to
include the paper bag in some way, because I wasn’t drawing on a paper bag, and the
original illustration was done on a paper bag. I thought it would be really cute if I was
holding a paper bag full or groceries, and I just… I think a bust is fine and all if you have
a very interesting illustrative style, but I thought it would be really boring if I just
drew myself as a bust. So I did a circle sort of cropped situation,
and had myself holding this paper bag of groceries. And then I ended up doing a gold watercolor
fine tech circle around myself. And overall, I think it’s a really fun and
cute simple but interesting if you look at where I got my inspiration from illustration. Now, I did say I was going to include a Pokemon
shirt, but the more I thought about it the more I thought “Well.. I wouldn’t wear a Pokemon shirt today.” But if I were to wear something like a reference
to pop culture, it would be a very subtle thing. And I like stripes, so I gave myself a striped
shirt and put some Pikachu heads in between it. But honestly those heads look like they could
be Hatch or ants… or Pikachu. So at this point, it’s whatever you want
it to be. Not to mention I must’ve really liked the
color purple because my shirt was purple which… you know, I don’t like purple, so I wasn’t
about to do. And... my art portfolio had my name in purple. There was a lot of purple in these arts, which
today… no. I couldn’t do because I do not like that
color of purple. So although this portrait is very different
than what I drew 20 years ago, I think it is a very accurate representation of how I
draw today, and I really like it. So there you go! And there is my 20 year old redraws of my
nine-year-olds selfs drawings. I think this one’s actually my favorite,
but that’s probably just because I am partial to my ant drawings. I think my self portrait redraw was probably
the most interesting just because it’s really different but also its the same. It’s still a self portrait. And once again thank you so much to the sponsor
of this video, NordVPN. Make sure you click the link in the description
if you want to be all safe and secure. Thank you so much for watching, and I will
see you guys in the next video. Bye! 