• From transferring our minds into robots,
to nuking the Moon, we answer some of your most BURNING questions about life
• Hey there, my name is Pecan and I'll be reading out your mind with truth
10 – TheBlownut - How long can you look at the Sun without going blind? • My average is around an hour, thinking
about going pro but I don’t want to show off. Still - let’s see if I can break the record. • Here we go. One-
• * • Wow. You didn’t even last one second. • Look. I’m just tired today. I’m gonna hit up the hospital and I’ll
try again. • You can’t stare at the sun for very
long. Even just 1 or 2 minutes can cause permanent
damage as the UV rays flood the retina. The cells around your eyes will blister and
crack, and you might see dark spots. You’ll usually recover within a day or two,
but some cases can take 1 month or a whole year to fully recover. 9 – Gavin Jones - What allows starfish limbs
to grow new bodies? • Gym bulkup. Not many people know this, but exercising
day in, day out will force parts of your brain to relocate around your body to make room
for extra muscle. When you have most of your brain in your foot,
you too will be able to grow a new body. • Oh – so that’s why people sweat in
the gym. It’s not because they’re exhausted, it’s
because they’re pushing their own brains into their… feet…? • Exactly. You’re a wise student. • Starfish, or sea stars, house most of
their vital organs inside their limbs. Most species need to keep their main body
intact, but some can regrow an entire body from just one severed arm or a leg. The stem cells inside the fish’s body can
reform any imperfection, sort of like how our cells repair cuts or bruises on our human
skin. 8 – Aidan ramsey - What would happen if
we nuked the Moon? • Well then the people on the Moon would
fire nukes right back! All-out war, is that what you want? I don’t think we should be solving all our
problems with nukes – “oh, my friend double-dipped, better nuke his family”. Why do we have to nuke people with HATE? Why can’t we nuke them with LOVE? • Not much would happen if we nuked the
moon. Even the largest bomb we’ve ever unleashed
wouldn’t have the firepower to even be a visible blip in the night sky and there’d
be no danger of throwing the Moon off course or raining down debris. Not even all of Earth’s collective nukes
launched at the same spot on the moon would do much. 7 – Queen Aßhley - If humans never evolved
to eat meat, what would life be like? • It’d be GARBAGE. Think of how many hours people would spend
hunting animals, skinning them, carving them up, cooking them, seasoning, preparing & presenting
in a delicious banquet, only for everyone to realise we can’t eat them. Like, what a TEASE! • Maybe it’d save time to not do any of
those things. We could all eat fruit instead. • FRUIT!? You don’t get... food, do you? • Least I don’t cook meat and not eat
it. • (sigh) You have a point. But I don’t have to like it. • It’s believed that meat gave humans
a head start in developing their brains due to the energy and protein gained from consuming
it. It’s possible we never would have reached
our current level of intelligence needed to develop language and plan hunts for wildlife. 6 – Russ Habinek - Could we survive without
gravity? • Pshh, gravity isn’t real in the first
place. You can’t feel it, you can’t smell it,
it doesn’t weigh anything. It’s a myth, a hoax. You’ve been duped. Earth is flat and spins around on a turntable
- that’s what generates resistance and keeps you grounded. • You think Earth is a vinyl record that…
spins? • As opposed to the theory Earth is a bowling
ball shape that spins. • The short answer is: no, we couldn’t
survive without gravity. Natural resources rely on some level of gravity
to remain stable, including the atmosphere and oceans. Without them, everything would drift into
space and boil or freeze away. 5 – David Buur Is it possible to transfer
our minds into robots? • Well if a human can transfer their mind
into… whatever Pecan is… then anything is possible. • Hey! I was born this way. And I’ll have you know there are plenty
of people out there who love me for being what I am. And you’re one to talk – what are you
even supposed to be made of? • Oh, that’s easy. According to the lab results, I am 30% marshmallow,
45% meme, and 20% Australian. • What’s the other 5%? • Trash. Which is okay. We’ve all got a little bit of trash in us. • The concept of brain mapping or neural
links might be more in the realm of science fiction, but we may eventually evolve the
human race by adapting parts of our brain into technology. Before you know it, we’ll be slowly upgrading
our thoughts, feelings and emotions until one day we’ll wake up more robot than human. 4 – Zz_zoo - Could Earth run out of lava? • Yes. Leaving your oven on, forgetting to switch
off your central heating, using your fireplace at all - it’s all sapping the planet of
its heat. We’ll run out of lava, global warming will
do a 180 and we’ll end up in another ice age and it’s all your fault. • Is there anything we can do to add more
lava into the world? • Hmm. Na. We’re buggered. All we can do is nuke the Earth until things
heat back up. We’ll all die… but it’ll be worth it. • Though lava comes and goes, the Earth
will never run out of magma. The solid interior of the planet is a crust
that continually melts as it reaches a certain temperature, which is pushed to the surface,
ejecting lava from tectonic plates and volcanoes. If the Earth cooled too much though, it would
run out of lava AND magma, becoming lifeless like the Moon. 3 – Cookies & Milk - What would happen if
our brains were in a different part of our body? • This is the best possible outcome for
a workout session. Now you can be decapitated and brush it off
like a scratch. Me? The contents of my skull have been scattered
so finely over my chilled physique that you’d have to register my brain matter in parts
per million. • I can believe that. • You giving me lip!? If my eyes hadn’t exploded earlier I’d
give you such a glaring right now. But you’re fortunate. • Unfortunately, it might be difficult for
humans to house their brain outside their skull. Everything is linked through the central nervous
system and the spinal cord, our bodies would have to undergo a significant overhaul to
relocate. Outside the body, though? That’s theoretically possible. • What about starfish? You said earlier they’ve got brains in their
arms. It proves my gym bulkup theory. • I think you might’ve exercised so much
you’ve pushed your own brain into your butt. • Hey. Safest place for it. Cushioned. 2 – How do seedless fruits grow if there’s
no SEED? • Bloody MAGIC! Society has advanced so far forward that now
we can plant fruit in the ground and it produces MORE FRUIT. Next we’ll be planting school textbooks
and spouting diplomas, or planting phones and getting slightly upgraded phones that
aren’t really that different but we pretend they’re different. • What if you plant people in the ground
then? • Oh come on – everyone knows that’s
how children are born. No magic involved there. • Seedless fruit are grown from cuts to
a branch or vine, mixed with nutrients and grown in dirt instead of from seeds. The one exception are seedless watermelons
which have tiny invisible sterile seeds that nobody notices when you eat them. Most of these are plant hybrids that are artificially
produced. 1 – Skyler Adams - What would happen if
the sun split in half? • Well you better believe we’d be gathering
up all the sticky tape, all the blu-tack, all the glue sticks and every adhesive you’ve
ever heard of to try and fix this MESS. I’m talking staplers, nails, bolts – man,
no need to hold back, bust out the super adhesive ultra-strength durable super glue cause the
sun’s – in – peril. • I’m not sure if that’d work… • Well, how would you fix the sun then? • I think I’d burn up just going near
it. • You would with that attitude. • Splitting the sun would destroy our solar
system. If we somehow survived by magic, the reduced
brightness and heat from the two suns would freeze all the water on Earth and kill us
all, but Mercury would become the new habitable planet. 