Sometimes an easter egg is found in a
game that due to reasons beyond our control... ...can never be found again. This is why today I'm diving into 7 Easter Eggs That Can No Longer Be Found... And joining me today is the Easter Egg Hunter who
helped me come up with the idea of this video... Thanks again James! [James] No problem Odd, I
can't wait to get started with you on this exciting episode... [Odd] Splatoon 2. Previously on my video 
Most Shocking Easter Eggs In Kids Games I detailed terrifying hidden audio that could be heard in the background of any of the boss rooms
in the game... that would only creep up if you sat around the room for more than
ten minutes... which were so mysterious even the game's director when asked
about it in a interview said he had no idea what the sounds were or why they
were even included in the game. Well, tying the mystery even further to newer,
stranger connections, I've heard additional reports from viewers such as
Alex and mochikitty who submitted me That's because these discoveries were
captured by a handful of people during Splatfest - a special series of events
that only appeared in Splatoon 2 from July 2017 to July 2019. For instance, if
players stood in front of these statues on the map Museum D'Alfonsio and
waited till the last 30 seconds of the match they occasionally could hear this
totally random little girl giggling... [ghostly girl laugh] Spooky... Youtuber JApple97 happened to
catch that, again, only during Splatfest, on the map Inkblot Art Academy, this
telephone booth would begin to ring only on extremely rare occasion, and if they
stood next to the booth they could hear this highly unsettling audio... [strange garbled noise] [phone line hangs up] Well, given the obscurity and extremely
rare occurrence of the audio, on top of the fact that we're never gonna be able
to find these easter eggs ever again... I kind of doubt these discoveries are
something the game director still has any clue about.. Once again... Very weird. [ghostly girl laugh] [James] Cadence of Hyrule. Cadence of Hyrule is a really cool crossover title released exclusively on the Nintendo Switch blending the rhythm-based series 
Crypt of Necrodancer with the world of Legend of Zelda. And not long after release, players
such as Blaines and LevelCodex found if they threw this rock in just the
right spot on Gerudo Village, jumped south over the rock and then walked along this
wall, they'd find themselves in this unexpectedly, cozy secret area. Upon
entering the house the player can talk to this character, who immediately states "I AM ERROR." A reference to Zelda 2: The Adventure of Link as a random villager in the town 
of Ruto simply stated the same message... "I AM ERROR." Immediately after that reference the character introduces himself as Error
Houlihan, another reference that refers to another easter egg from 
A Link to the Past This time referencing the secret Chris
Houlihan room, which was actually a secret failsafe room if the game failed
to load the right area when falling into a hole... and Chris actually being a player
who was awarded an appearance in A Link to The Past thanks to a contest held in
Nintendo Power. Turns out this room in Cadence of Hyrule
is exactly the same failsafe, as it only appears in the event of a player of
breaking out of bounds, especially difficult considering the game moves on a
grid, plus the fact if players go to try to find this easter egg now, they'll find
it no longer works at all! As a patch was issued to the game that adds an extra
rock... right here... no longer allowing the player to access the Houlihan House ever
again, unless anyone finds a way before the developer patches it out. Oh yeah, and Error Houlihan lastly adds that he wants to build a chandelier... of hot dogs... This time referencing... [awkward laugh] Oh, actually me and Odd have no idea what that's referencing. [Odd] Uncharted 4: A Thief's End. In 2016, youtuber BrokenOpus discovered during this scene in Uncharted 4, if they
entered into photo mode and moved the camera into just the right position, they
could see a headline that was actually directly lifted from The Onion which
says "World's Largest Metaphor Hits Iceberg." Well, it turns out this Easter
egg will never be found again, as as soon as it was found another patch was
quickly issued not long after, as when BrokenOpus went to observe the
newspaper easter egg again after the patch... ...he found The Onion article was now
replaced with a new headline that said "Effects Artist Jailed For Using Copyrighted Material" ...which I think that gives us a pretty good clue why we're
never gonna find the original easter egg ever again... [James] Sonic Mania. When Sonic Mania first released, players found on Hydrocity Zone if they grabbed on to one of the hooks... ...entered the Sonic 3 & Knuckles level
select code: Left, left, left Right, right, right, right,
Up, up, up ...they would hear the iconic Sonic ring sound... [ring sound] Then at any point from
then on in the game, whenever you used one of the games boosters, no longer would
the normal booster sound be present as rather it would be replaced with this
little voice clip instead... EEeeeeeeyyeh!! Which is actually a sample lifted from youtuber
Dunkey's video, Best of 2016... "EEeeeeeeyyeh!!" However, once players found this easter egg, it
unfortunately wasn't in the game for very long, as a patch was released
shortly after the discovery of the egg that quickly removed it from the game,
meaning the egg can no longer ever be found again... "EEeeeeeeyyeh!!" Why the Dunkey easter egg was
removed remains a mystery, though the large speculation was the egg was
implemented without Sega's approval and maybe they weren't too happy about
Dunkey's Sonic 06 video.. [Dunkey] "Can jump off a building to building but he can't [bleep]ing swim!" "Have you ever heard of Superman 64? 
Yeah... same team here." [Odd] City of Heroes. Thanks to ssharp77 who shared this one with me in the comments of my 
Areas Never Meant to Be Found Part I video, as ssharp recalled a mystery he always wondered
about in the now-defunct online game City of Heroes. Sharp recalled on the map
Peregrine Island, if you were to swim way out of the right side of the map and
jumped into just the right spot in the invisible wall out in the ocean, you'd find
a gap in the wall where could you get yourself far out of bounds, finally coming to a
flat earther's dream by falling off the edge of the ocean! Swimming out even
further, you could eventually find a pair of large boxes suspended high in the air
and by typing the failsafe command "/stuck" which teleports you to the nearest
door in case you got, well... stuck... You would suddenly teleport inside of the
boxes and find yourself in a room that appeared to be the mainframe of the
matrix, a huge contrast to any of the environments in the game.
The unfortunate thing is not much was ever understood about this location as
players were instantly banned for simply entering it, highly reminiscent of the
Fallout 76 developer room, but this time with much less answers! And the only way
the footage you see now was even captured with because it was caught in
literally the game's last moments before the server went down and vanished
forever... meaning no one ever got to see what the room's deeper secrets really
were... or why the developers were so intent on making it so that no one could
ever get into the room, before the game was unplugged from the matrix and ended
up completely lost somewhere in cyberspace forever... Runescape. Thanks to hallways for their
incredible research submitted through my website oddheader.com. Hallways explained in
the nearly 20 year-old, largest-running massively multiplayer online game,
Runescape, there used to be a long-running rumor about a mysterious
area that appeared on the world map for only a few hours... never to be seen again... Well, Hallways finally tried to get to the bottom of the mystery himself after
all these years and downloaded an old copy of the game to finally get the
answers for himself... after going through the files and getting everything up and running Hallways sure enough found that indeed
for about a day and a half in July 2006 a strange mass of land indeed appeared
in Runescape for only a brief sliver of time. Hallways further research found the
area had actually been in the game since September 2004 and was swiftly deleted
after its brief debut on the map in 2006. And again, thanks to Hallways' endless
curiosity, he even asked noted Runescape developer Mod Ash about its existence and even
Mod had no idea what the environment's purpose was, leaving this as a truly
unsolvable discovery considering its origins are now only a distant memory that even
those behind the mystery can now barely recall... [James] Playstation Home. I actually came to Odd with this video idea because... I remembered a few easter eggs that could
no longer be found in Sony's now offline, 3D social gaming platform,
PlayStation Home. Coincidentally, shortly after we agreed on this video idea,
Dedsec of the Project Destination Home (Preservation Project) reached out to Odd
at the same time through his discord server and claimed they had enough of
the game back online to show some of the game's many lost easter eggs...
Unfortunately, many of these easter eggs are still no longer able to be found, as
the levels they were found in are still yet to go online, but until then all we
have are these images of this floating out of bounds shark wearing a fez from
the still offline map Aurora as well as a few other easter eggs
on other unavailable maps like Burn Zombie Burn... Perhaps that will all change
though, as the team is still working on getting the maps back up, so maybe these
easter eggs can actually be found in the game once again someday soon. Fortunately,
thanks to the amazing work of the Project Destination team, we can still
look at two awesome out of bounds easter eggs that can be finally found again,
solely thanks to their efforts on the now online map, Apartment, including this
strangely out-of-place mine from the game Warhawk... that would have once only
been seen with the use of a glitch and not even a far distance away from this
easter egg we can also find this hilarious secret message... [Odd] Again thanks to
dedsec and the Preservation Project for giving us these looks at these easter
eggs that otherwise could have never been seen again. Without you we'd lose an
important part of video game easter egg history... Go support team Project
Destination Home if you want to see these easter eggs ever found again... and
thank you again James for joining me on the channel today. Please support James
by subscribing to his channel and thank you for supporting this channel too as
we're about to break 500,000 subs I just can't even believe it... and thank you
again to Swagbucks for supporting this channel and making this video possible.
Having used swagbucks in the past I can say that it's a fun and addicting way to make
and save some money from home. You can save on the brands that you already buy
from through cashback deals, discounts and more. Earn cash and gift cards just by
shopping online and taking advantage of the deals on the site. You can also earn
additional spending cash by taking surveys, watching videos, and playing
games. Sign up and check out all the places that you can earn and save, such
as Amazon, Walmart, and more. Use the link down below to get an extra five dollars
just for signing up. If you enjoyed this video, please subscribe. If you know of
any other easter eggs that can no longer be found, let me know in the comments
down below... Submit to oddheader.com Or even send me a shout on Twitter or Reddit... [patrons] 