Gasoline has approximately 56 Megajoules of
chemical energy per liter , which is more energy than you get from exploding the same
of amount of TNT, and is enough to power a toaster for a full day. Cars work by burning gasoline to convert that
chemical energy into the kinetic energy of motion of the car, though almost 80% of it
is lost as heat in the engine. Still, 20% of 56 million joules is a lot of
joules… To give a direct sense of gas-to-car conversion,
it takes about five teaspoons of of gas to accelerate a 2 ton car to 60kph, and about
a third of a cup more for every additional minute you want to keep it going at that speed. That might not sound like a lot of fuel, but
the energy of a car moving 60kph is equivalent to dropping an elephant – or stegosaurus
– from the top of a three-story building. And in order for the car to stop, all that
energy has to go somewhere. If the brakes do the stopping, they dissipate
the energy by heating up. In the case of a collision, energy is dissipated
by the bending and crumpling of metal in the outer areas of the car. And just like how smooth braking is nicer
than a quick jerky stop, cars are carefully designed to crumple - when they crash - in
a way that lengthens the duration of the impact so that stopping requires less intense acceleration. Lots of acceleration over a very short time
is not good for soft human brains and organs. However, people don’t like driving cars
with Pinocchio-length noses, so most cars only have around 50 cm of crushable space
in which to dissipate the energy equivalent of our falling stegosaur. That means that, while crumpling, they need
to maintain a resistive force of about a quarter the thrust of the space shuttle main engine. Over half of the controlled-crumpling work
is done by a pair of steel rails connecting the front bumper to the body, which bend and
deform to absorb energy and slow the car. Most of the rest of the energy is absorbed
by the deformation of other pieces of structural metal throughout the front of the car. This meticulously engineered destruction allows
a crashing car to decelerate at a high but reasonable rate: just slightly over the acceleration
experienced by fighter pilots or astronauts in centrifuge training. As comparison, if cars were super rigid (like
they were before the 1950s) and didn’t crumple, they would stop so fast that they would undergo
acceleration 15 times what fighter pilots experience in training. Thankfully engineers have learned to make
cars with crunchy crumple zones surrounding their rigid safety cell, because fully rigid
cars are not good for fighter pilots or anyone else. Except, maybe, robots. 