Thanks to Great Courses Plus for Supporting PBS.  Once there was a Neanderthal 
who was cleaning an animal skin. They were holding the skin between their teeth 
while pulling it tight and scraping it with a   stone tool.
   And every now and then, the scraper would 
slip and accidentally scratch their front   teeth.
   This individual lived about 130,000 years ago 
in what’s now Croatia. And the scratches that   these random accidents left on their teeth reveal 
important clues about the hands that made them.   
Based on the   orientation of these scratches, and those on 
teeth found from other sites, anthropologists   have figured out that most Neanderthals were 
right-handed, just like most of us Homo sapiens.   
Seventy to 95 percent of us,   to be exact. Including the dude here.
   But today, no other placental mammal that we know 
of prefers one side of the body so consistently,   not even our closest primate relatives.
   And not only that, but no human population has 
ever been recorded as being mostly left-handed.   
It turns out that our preference for one hand over   another might be tangled up with some of the other 
unique traits that we inherited from our ancestors   after our lineage split with chimpanzees: 
namely, walking upright and making stone tools. In fact, being right handed may have 
deep evolutionary roots in our lineage.   And yet, being a leftie does seem to 
come with some unexpected advantages.   
We generally think of being right or left handed   to mean preferring to use one hand over the other. 
But it’s actually more complicated than that.   
Handedness seems to be more of a spectrum, with   some people being strongly right or left handed, 
and others being somewhere between the two.   
And we can  also do a lot of different   things with our hands, from simply holding 
an object to precise, delicate manipulation,   like threading a needle.
   People who generally prefer their right hand 
for tasks that require fine motor skills could   be said to be right handed, but they still use 
their left hands a lot in their daily lives.  Take something like cutting up a carrot - I’d 
hold the knife in my right hand and do most   of the work with it, but I’d still hold the 
carrot on the cutting board with my left.    Now, like in all vertebrates, each hand is 
controlled by a different side of our brain.   The left hemisphere controls the right 
side of our bodies, and vice versa.   
Also, the two hemispheres of our   brain aren’t perfectly symmetrical, which leads 
to different cognitive processes taking place in   different parts of the brain.
   This separation is known as lateralization, 
and it’s found in all vertebrates and some   invertebrates too, and allows us to simultaneously 
process different types of information.   
But like many other traits,   asymmetry and lateralization are pretty extreme 
in us humans, especially compared to other   primates.
   And this  may be part of the reason that we 
eventually came to prefer one hand over another.   
Ninety-nine percent of   people have a dominant hand.
   And there’s lots of evidence that 
it’s been this way for a long time.   
Cave paintings all over the world   from the Late Pleistocene depict wild animals, 
hunting events, and notably, a ton of human hands.   
To make these hands, an artist probably   placed one hand on the rock and then sprayed 
pigment over it by blowing into a straw-like tube,   leaving an outline of the hand.
   And interestingly, the vast majority of 
the hands on the walls are left hands.   
So, experiments that recreated this method have   shown that these artists were predominantly right handed.
   Hand preference in our species is often so 
strong that you can even see it in the skeleton,   especially among athletes like tennis players 
who use one arm a lot more than the other.  The bone of their dominant upper arm becomes 
thicker in certain places compared to the bone   of their non-dominant arm, because they’re 
subjecting it to more force, more often.   
In fact, although we’re the only species on Earth   today that’s so strongly handed, there’s a lot of 
evidence that our extinct hominin relatives - that   is, the members of our lineage after the split 
with chimpanzees - were mostly right handed, too.   
And weirdly enough, some of the oldest   unambiguous evidence comes from teeth.
   Scientists had already suspected that Neanderthals 
were mostly right handed based on their upper   arm bones. Like a right-handed tennis player, 
Neanderthals had thicker upper arm bones in their   right arms than their left arms. 
   But it’s rare to find fossils of earlier 
hominins with bones from both arms preserved   in order to compare them.
   So when scientists found microscopic scratches 
on Neanderthal teeth that were caused by tools,   like those found on that Croatian specimen, 
they began to wonder about two things. First, how far back in the fossil record could 
this evidence for handedness be recognized,   and, second, what other behaviors 
could handedness be   associated with?
   As it turns out, hominins have been using their 
teeth basically as a third hand for quite a while. So pretend you’re pulling a piece of animal hide 
tight, between your front teeth and your left   hand, stretching it out in front of you, and 
holding a sharp stone tool in your right hand.   To clean the hide, you scrape the 
tool across it from left to right.  If you slip and scratch your teeth, those 
scratches go from the upper left corner to   the lower right corner of your incisors. If you 
were holding the stone tool in your left hand,   they would go the opposite direction 
- from upper right to lower left.  Similar scratches like these were found on 500,000 year 
old teeth from Spain belonging to a large group   of Homo heidelbergensis, the species that might 
be our last common ancestor with Neanderthals.   
And those scratches have   even been detected on the teeth of a Homo habilis
from Tanzania that was 1.8 million years old!   
Now, one right-handed Homo habilis doesn’t   mean the whole species was right-handed, it’s 
clear that handedness itself is pretty old.   
And because no other primate species   has extreme hand dominance, this trait must 
have emerged after our split from chimpanzees.   
But, why did more than one hominin species   start preferring one hand in the first place? And, 
what’s so special about the right hand anyway?  
Many studies have turned to genetics to   try to find the elusive “handedness” gene. 
   Observations of families and genetic 
analyses have shown that handedness does   appear to be somewhat heritable, and that 
men are left handed more often than women.   
But, many searches through our   genome haven’t found the gene that’s responsible 
for left or right handedness. Instead, it seems   like several  genes may have some minor effects, 
and that other factors might also be at play.   
So, other scientists have focused on the   importance of brain lateralization and tool use.
   Brain scans of people performing a variety 
of tasks have shown that a specific region   of our left hemisphere, called BA44, plays 
an important role in manipulating objects,   including making and using tools.
   Since the left hemisphere controls the right 
hand, it’s possible that the development   of tools millions of years ago led to this 
hand eventually being favored across hominin   species.
   And having a species-wide hand preference at all 
may be linked to an even older trait: bipedalism.   
Some other bipedal mammals,   like kangaroos, seem to have a hand preference, 
which suggests that not moving on all fours may   have something to do with it.
   What’s interesting is that these kangaroos are 
mostly left handed, and they don’t use tools   like we do.
   So, if us being right handed is somehow 
related to tool use and our left hemisphere,   then why are there any lefties today at all?
    While we still don’t know for sure, it’s possible 
that at some point after the development of stone   tools, everyone became right handed.
   In this scenario, left handedness may have 
emerged later, as a result of one or several   genetic mutations.
   And since lefties make up a pretty consistently 
small portion of the population in our largely   right-handed world, there must be 
some kind of evolutionary advantage.   
And this, too,   might all go back to lateralization.
   Experiments and brain-scan studies have shown that 
lefties tend to have less lateralized brains than   righties.
   This means that they process information 
more evenly across their brains,   and this may be associated with better 
coordination, memory, and verbal skills.   
Plus, according to several studies, it also   gives them an unexpected edge in physical combat.
   Imagine you’re in a boxing match. If you’re right 
handed, and you’ve only encountered right-handed   opponents, you’ll probably be expecting hits 
to come from your opponent’s right hand.   
But if your opponent is left-handed,   they’ll have the advantage of surprise, because 
they’d be striking from an unexpected angle.   
This left handed advantage is seen in a   range of interactive sports today and is absent in 
non-interactive sports, like darts. And it seems   to be stronger in men than in women.
   One study from 2019 even found that left 
handed boxers and mixed martial artists   win matches significantly more often 
than their right handed opponents.   
This benefit could’ve directly led to   increased survival among left handed people.
   And it might also explain why the frequency of 
left-handers is so low: if too many people are   left handed, the advantage disappears.
    Like tool use, bipedalism, and being relatively 
hairless and sweaty, being right handed seems to   have a deep evolutionary history in our lineage.
   Thanks to our highly lateralized brains, many of 
the mental  processes that we use to make tools   are concentrated in one area, which in most 
of us, happens to be in the left hemisphere.   
And since this   hemisphere also controls the right side of our 
bodies, we tend to favor this hand more often. While having hand dominance is found in a few 
other bipedal mammals, no other primate shows the   degree of favoritism for one hand that we do.
   And even though the exact origin of 
right hand preference isn’t yet clear,   lefties might have enough important evolutionary 
advantages for them to still be around.   
It just goes   to show how variable we are as a species, 
and that there’s no right…way to be human. And we’ve gotta hand it to 
this month’s Eontologists:   Sean Dennis, Jake Hart, Annie & Eric Higgins, 
John Davison Ng, and Patrick Seifert!   By becoming an Eonite at patreon.com/eons, you   can get fun perks like submitting a joke 
for us to read, which I’m gonna do now...   
This one is from Betsy.   Why couldn't the Tyrannosaurus get 
a driver's license? Because T. rex The w is silent and invisible, I guess. And as always thanks for joining 
me in the Konstantin Haase studio. Subscribe at youtube.com/eons 
for more creature features. 