The BlackBerry Key2 is here. This is a retail version I bought myself. Last year's KEYone didn't do so well in my
durability test. Turns out the screen didn't have enough adhesive
on the back and it would randomly fall off. Not just on my phone, but on others in real
life as well. Luckily BlackBerry was pretty quick to acknowledge
the issue after my video and started gluing their screens on better and offering free
replacements to anyone affected. Now we have the Key2 – a new and improved
Android phone with a full keyboard. But is the screen glued on? There's only one way to find out. Let's get started. [Intro] There aren't many phones out there with full
keyboards these days. I used to have a BlackBerry Pearl back in
the days of T9 texting. So the keyboard and I do have a fond history,
even if I don't currently use one. The keyboard this year on the Key2 is more
of a flat matte dry plastic, which I'm a fan of. I think it's better than the glossy rubberized
keys from last year's KEYone. Also, the screen glass doesn't wrap around
the edges of the phone. The Key2 has flat glass, which I think looks
better and is more durable. The back is still the black rubber we've come
to expect on BlackBerry phones. And the keyboard still doubles as it's own
little track pad controlling the screen. Speaking of which, it's time for the scratch
test. I have a set of Mohs picks that differentiate
between different minerals and materials. BlackBerry did drop down to a Gorilla Glass
3 on the Key2, which compromises slightly on the shatter resistance, but personally,
I feel like Gorilla Glass 3 is slightly harder and therefore slightly more scratch resistant
than Gorilla Glass 5. Glass is still glass no matter what version
it is. The different variations of glass are just
marginally better than each other. This 4.5 inch screen still gets marked up
at a level 6, with deeper grooves at a level 7. Up here at the top of the screen, the glass
extends all the way to the top of phone protecting the 8 megapixel front facing camera, and also
surrounds the earpiece which appears to be made from plastic. The earpiece is very well secured underneath
the glass, so unless the screen falls out on it's own, which isn't outside the realm
of possibilities with BlackBerry, the earpiece should be solid. The keyboard of the BlackBerry Key2 is my
favorite part of the phone. It's unique. It might be argued that keyboards are outdated,
but everyone has different preferences and that's what makes the smartphone world awesome
– there really is something for everyone. We're here for durability though. The flat non-grippy plastic is still scratchable,
but I bet typing speed will increase when your thumbs tickle the old ivory since the
the rubber isn't there to slow you down. The keyboard letters are printed on top of
the plastic and not embedded all the way through like we saw with the Nintendo Switch. The printed keys are more cost effective,
just time will tell if they wear off with normal use or not. They keys themselves are pretty awesome. Each individual key is very securely glued
to a rubber backing over the circuit board. And judging by how far I can pull them away
from the phone without breaking, these are going to last a while. They spring back into place like nothing happened. This phone has no water resistance though. We'll have to see if BlackBerry added any
internal protections during my teardown video. The fingerprint scanner is very creatively
integrated into the space bar, and surprisingly, does not scratch. The little guy is scratch proof. All the other keys are the normal plastic
except for this space bar. Setting up my fingerprint was still pretty
flawless and managed to open up the phone every time. I'm impressed. The scratch proof space bar definitely gets
a thumbs up from me. The viewing angle does seem a little low on
this phone, but BlackBerries have a reputation for being secure, so maybe that's a plan feature
and not a flaw. The phone is made from metal though, which
is great. 7000 series aluminum and still comes with
a headphone jack. The sides are metal which is good. The volume rocker is also metal, although
it did feel like plastic initially. And we have our heavily textured power button
and a dedicated programmable button on the side. Nice of BlackBerry to leave it open so we
can choose what we want to use it for. The SIM and SD card tray are metal. And the bottom of the phone brings our USB-C
port – all things we have come to expect on a 2018 flagship. Dual cameras are also the norm these days,
and BlackBerry did it right with 2 different types of lenses. A normal 12 megapixel camera, and a 12 megapixel
telephoto zoom lens. The dual 2 colored LED flash is plastic, but
the light is getting diffused anyway, so scratches won't matter if they happen. The BlackBerry drupes are permanently displayed
in the center of the phone. If you remember, drupes are what we call the
little balls that make up the BlackBerry fruit – hence the logo. And each drupe is very solidly secured into
the back panel. These guys aren't coming out on their own. It's almost like BlackBerry was ready for
me this time around. The back panel itself is made from, as BlackBerry
calls it, textured diamond grip non-slip back. I call it rubber molded in the shape of diamonds. Also, fun fact, modern keys, the ones we use
today, were invented in 1861. They've been around for almost 160 years. A modern key against this Key2 won't do any
damage though. It should hold up against normal abuse, like
keys and coins and stuff. BlackBerry is pretty recognized as one of
the most secure smartphones, especially back when they had their own operating system. Nowadays, they are still secure on a software
level, but against my physical flame, it lasted about 13 seconds. Now let's see if that screen pops off. A bend test gives us a pretty good idea of
how well the phones are constructed, revealing any fragile points or kinks in the frame we
need to worry about. Even with considerable pressure applied to
the back of the phone, the front glass is very solidly intact and still glued in. Same from the rear. The back panel remains secure and in one piece
this time around. If phone companies keep making super solid
secure smartphones, I'm going to be out of a job as a professional phone breaker. Or maybe it's my job that keeps smartphone
companies making solid smartphones. Who knows. From a physical standpoint, the Key2 is a
success and passes all my durability tests. Nice work, BlackBerry. If you want to check out the current pricing
or give NordVPN a try to secure your Internets, try the links in the video description. Let me know if you have any questions. And thanks a ton for watching. I'll see you around. 