Oh, hey, sorry. I was just finishing up filing my taxes for the year. Man, nothing makes me feel as patriotic as when I'm paying my taxes. Let me tell you, if we didn't have taxes, I'm pretty sure this entire country would be the Hunger Games. That's the only possible outcome! The only thing that stops us from being barbarians in the streets is the fact that every year, we send tax money to bureaucrats. (PANTING) (SCREAMING) No, please, have mercy on me! Mercy? Without taxes, there's only murder! No! Okay, maybe I'm being a little hyperbolic, but paying taxes is important, right? I mean, without taxes, who would build the roads? Wouldn't the world just descend into chaos if we didn't give the smart people a big chunk of our income each year? Wow, you guys have things really figured out, don't you? Yeah, we do. I know I complain about politicians from time to time, but really, I'm just so amazed at how smart you guys are. Well, we're here to serve. As a mere mortal, I am not capable of comprehending your infinite wisdom. Or, as an opposing viewpoint, what if, and I'm not even necessarily saying that I agree with what I'm about to suggest, but what if taxes are wrong? (GASPS) Blasphemy! I know, it's heretical to even suggest the possibility. I mean, just by using those words in that order, the terrorists win. But as long as I've already said it and now I'm doomed to H-E-double-hockey-sticks, let's be even more risky and actually think this through. If I walk up to you and take money out of your wallet, that's called theft. So why is it called "tax" when the government does the exact same thing? And I know that you're gonna say that there's more nuance to it than that, but as a principle, it's the same thing. So why is it okay for the government to do it, but it's not okay when I do it, even though I'm going to do really nice things with the money? Can I not do it because I'm not the government? I think I'll just declare myself the government right now, and then it'll be okay. Josh, come here. The government of Jordan has summoned you. Come here for a second. Okay. How much money do you have? I think I have, like, uh, six dollars? Okay, I'm gonna take one, and two of these dollars. Now, don't worry, I'm going to do some very kind things for people with this money. Including you! But shouldn't I get to decide what to do with my money? Why did you even take my money? (LAUGHING) Josh ... I'm the boss. I could have easily taken three dollars, okay? So I'm gonna lose my patience with you. You're lucky to be alive! Now do you see what I mean? Even if the government of Jordan, the best government that ever was, actually did something good with Josh's money, is it right? I mean, I took it from him against his will. Uh, excuse me? I'm happy to pay my taxes! Really? You're happy to pay your taxes? So you're telling me that if the IRS wrote you a letter today that said, Oh, hey, by the way, you can opt out of paying your taxes this year with no fear of repercussion! You're telling me that you would still happily pay? I mean, if you would, then great! You can voluntarily send in money to the government any time you want! They won't reject it, I promise. But, I mean, if there are really people who are happy to pay taxes, shouldn't these people hate the idea of a "tax refund"? Jordan, what's wrong? You look so depressed! I just got my tax refund! They sent you your money back? Yeah! I was more than happy to give it to them! Oh, I'm sure you were! The debt is just so high, and the wars—they're not gonna pay for themselves, you know? - (JORDAN SOBBING) - I know, Jordan. You just wanted to pay your fair share! But no, no, the people get so excited about that check. As if the government is doing them a favor! Hey, uh, remember how your paycheck could have been much bigger every two weeks except I was kind of taking your money? Yeah, I do remember that. Not cool, man. Well. Here's fifty bucks back. I miscalculated how much I needed. Oh, this makes everything better! Thank you! Look, I'm not saying that we should abolish all taxes, okay? I'm just saying that maybe we should actually think this through. Because I've got to believe that even if we didn't have taxes, everyday Americans would find a way to lay concrete and then have the cars drive over it in an orderly fashion. I've gotta believe that. 