From whether you can breathe liquid oxygen
to why cats are afraid of cucumbers, we answer several of your strangest question about life. - Hello, my name is Doopie and I’ll be reading
out the questions and answers. - Hey, I’m Pringle and I’m here to be
delicious. 10 - Ember Lightning
If you filled a pool with liquid oxygen, would you be able to breathe in it? - Well you can breathe regular oxygen, so
why not liquid oxygen? It’s easy, here I’ll show you! - *
- Are you ok, Pringle? - *
- Yeah I’m fine! Hey Doopie, watch out for the liquid oxygen! - *
- Uhhh - sorry about that. Here let me help. - *
- Uuuuuuuuuuugh. For Oxygen to become a liquid, it must be
cooled to minus 183 degrees celsius. If you were somehow able to fill a pool with
liquid oxygen, attempting to breathe it in would be incredibly dangerous and not just
because of the low temperature. Your body’s natural heat would cause the
liquid oxygen to boil and become a gas. Which means if you breathed it in, you would
probably explode. 9 - Arty Harty
What would the world be like if religion never existed? - All churches would instead be monuments
to anime, I’d even have my own harem of waifus. Everyone would be dedicated to spreading the
good word of weeb! - That almost sounds like a religion, I’m
not sure about this… - Doopie, come check out this monument! - *
- What do you think? - *
- IT’S GLORIOUS! Sign me up to this cult! I’ll spread the word of weeb to all corners
of the globe! It’s hard to imagine a world without religion
as we humans have long tried to understand the world around us and will often find belief
in concepts or deities. Before modern science, people would try to
rationalise the world with what knowledge they currently had, which led to religion
shaping cultures, morals and laws. If religion had never existed, it’s possible
that humanity might not have advanced, remaining primal and tribalistic. 8 - Isaac meza
Where would mankind be if the wheel were never invented? - I guess if the wheel had never been invented
people would just adapt and use other shapes, like triangles or maybe my favourite shape,
the squircle. - What the heck is a squircle? - Look at my head, Doopie. It’s an almost perfect squircle! Just imagine a world where the squircle replaced
the wheel. - * Humanity, even at a primitive level, has the
ability to create tools to aid them. If the wheel was never invented, it’s likely
that somebody would eventually create it. If not, imagine a world where wheels do not
exist. Transportation would be primitive, mills and
grindstones would not exist and even some forms of entertainment, like a roulette wheel
would be absent. It would be a pretty slow, hungry and boring
world. 7 - Gabrielle Price
How do cats purr? - Cats sometimes eat things they shouldn’t. If you hear a cat purring, chances are it’s
swallowed a smart phone set to vibrate. - *
- Oh, one second everyone, I need to take this. - *
- Hello? - Pringle! Leave that poor thing alone! - *
- Was it someone important? - *
- It was a crank call. Like most bodily functions the action of purring
begins in the cat’s brain. It sends a neural message to the laryngeal
muscles that causes them to twitch. The rate at which these muscles twitch is
about 25 to 150 times per second. This vibration then causes the cat’s vocal
cords to separate as the cat breathes, which produces the sound we call purring. 6 - FNicholas Hubert
Why do we get "morning breath"? - Maybe you’re a sleepwalker - no - a sleep
eater! You should retrace your steps and find out
if you ate something bad to make your breath stink. I only eat good foods that are coloured yellow. Speaking of which! Doopie, would you like to try one of my smoothies? - Sure, thanks Pringle! - *
- URGHH! What is this!? - *
- Oh you know, just yellow foods. Bananas, lemons, cheese, scrambled eggs, mustard,
curry, nutritious maggots… - I’m gonna go throw up. - * Bad morning breath is caused by a dry mouth
and a lack of saliva. Saliva is necessary to wash away food particles
and bacteria that accumulate in your mouth. Snoring or breathing through your mouth as
you sleep will cause your mouth to become dryer, increasing the likelihood that you
will wake with a bad case of morning breath. 5 - BossMajor 345
How long would it take to successfully colonize Mars? - Not to be rude but why would you go there? It’s just filled with red rocks and Martians,
and they’re not the nicest people. - *
- You what mate?! Come over ‘ere and say that to our faces! - Hey, we don’t want any trouble! - Yeah jog on! Currently it’s not known how long it would
take to colonize Mars. The current obstacle that experts are searching
for a solution for is a reliable way to travel to and from the planet with relative ease. Right now the estimated travel time to Mars,
when the planet is at its closest to Earth, is about 260 days. Once the issue of travelling to Mars is solved,
colonization may begin. 4 - ACEnBEAKY
How would humanity evolve if we only had one gender? - Do you need another gender to evolve? Just do what I do! - *
- Oh hey! - Hey, how’re you doing? - I - don’t think I or any other human can
do that. - *
- I don’t think their race is going to live very long. - Yeah, it’s really sad. Since both men and women are required for
reproduction, a world where only one of them exists would not have much of a future. For humanity to exist with only one gender,
the human race would have to be biologically different. During early evolution we would have had to
become similar to Clownfish or Flatworms which have the ability to change their sex. But then, would we still be able to call ourselves
humans? 3 - AWESOME GAMING_YT
Can you over boil an egg? - If you boil an egg too little, it will be
all runny and disgusting. If you cook it just right, the chick will
hatch! But if you boil the egg for too long, you’ll
kill the poor little bird. So be careful! - No no, Pringle. An egg has to be fertilized for a chick to
hatch. - What does fertilizer have to do with eggs? - You’ll find out when you’re older. Maybe in another two thousand years. Yes it is possible to over boil an egg. The ideal time to boil and egg is about 9-11
minutes. Any longer than 13 minutes and a grey coating
will form around the yolk, which itself will become harder and develop a green colouration. You will also find that the yolk now has a
slight sulphuric taste, which is not very enjoyable. 2 - Norma Garland
Why are cats afraid of cucumbers - *
- In the wild, the ferocious cucumber is a cat’s natural enemy. They hunt felines in order to pilfer the smart
phones within their stomachs. - Who was that? - No idea, some lunatic. One theory is that, to a cat, a cucumber looks
a lot like a snake. Snakes are a deadly predator in the wild and
tend to be adept at sneaking up on their prey. Cats are also afraid of things that are unknown
to them and which could present a danger. Reacting by quickly leaping away or preparing
to fight is their natural response when confronted by something dangerous. 1 - Some Random Guy
Why do your ears pop when you yawn? - I know why mine do. It’s because that’s where I pop my corn! - *
- Oh! Hold on one second! - *
- Keep going Pringle! - Ok! - *
- Awww yeah. Movie night tonight! The popping sensation in your ears is caused
by the pressure differences between the inside and outside of the eardrum. You sometimes experience popping when you
yawn because the pressure in your ears is being relieved by the opening of the Eustachian
tube, which connects your ear to the back of your nose and throat. - *
- Guys… I’m glad you like me so much but… I think I need a break… - *
- * - Hold up! There’s got to 
be some more in there, we can make a fortune off of this – SHAKE THE IDIOT! - *
- Hellbent! Stop! You’re going to kill him! - *
- … SO BE IT! - * 