Guys, the Internet Generation is finally growing up But they don't want to. Here is a visual representation of a Millennial's journey from childhood to adulthood: What with the conveniences of modern technology, and a level of leisure unmatched by any other point in human history, my generation is a little hesitant about taking on adult responsibilities. Well daughter, I think it's about time that you get a job so you can start paying for your own car insurance Mmm, that doesn't feel right to me. You bought me the car, you should pay the insurance So my generation has developed a very clever coping mechanism to make the transition from childhood to adulthood a little less triggering. We've done this by turning the word "adult" into a verb. Adult is no longer something you are, but something you do - sometimes. I finally got off my parents' phone plan. I'm really adulting now! It's meant to be ironic, like, haha guys look, I did an adult thing! But I'm still a kid and I don't care. But also if I don't start acting like an adult it's gonna be bad for me But also adults are lame, right? You know what it reminds me of? It reminds me of the Netflix joke. You've heard the Netflix joke. That moment when Netflix asks me if I'm still watching, and I have to decide if I'm going to be productive at all today. Here's a hint: [hashtag] I'm not! Wow, [echo] what an original joke! Why is this supposed to be funny? Is the punchline supposed to be that you're... lazy? Ha ha? Like, there is a whole generation of Internet culture that is dedicated to portraying yourself as lazy and as antisocial as possible. All my friends are hanging out tonight. Meanwhile, I have a date with my two best friends: Ben and Jerry. [snickers] That's not funny. That's sad, but people think this is something worth broadcasting, like not caring... is somehow a virtue. It seems like our generation wears this apathy as a badge of honor And that's why "adulting" is such a big deal. Because we don't WANT to adult. We just want to sit around watching Netflix, right? Just got home from work, and now I'm paying my bills. Am I adulting yet? No, you're not "adulting". You ARE an adult, and you're doing grown-up things, because that's what's expected of an adult. Unless... Did you want an award? I mean this just sounds weird Can you imagine if actual adults wanted to broadcast when they acted juvenile? Wow, I just played Xbox for four consecutive hours instead of going to work! Am I "kidding" yet? [laughs] Dad Jokes. Actually, speaking of jokes, I think that's what my generation's problem is. I think that our generation feels very insecure about our abilities. We don't feel... adequate enough to be adults, and so to cope, we just make the whole thing a joke! That works. I'm in my 20s, and today I did something that adults do every day. Pretty funny! And out of the ordinary for me It's like if someone makes fun of you for being short, the best way to defuse the situation is to laugh at the joke, right? You're right. I am short But our generation, it's kind of like if nobody had made a short joke in the first place. Yeah, because I'm short Well, I didn't even say anything about that. Well. I mean, I knew you were thinking it. Besides, I can't hear very well because I'm all the way down here anyway! [awkward laugh] The heck? Hey, that's not a fair metaphor because people make fun of Millennials all the time, and say we're really lazy Meanwhile I'm finishing up a binge of The Office right now [snickers] Look, adults don't "adult". Adults ARE adults. And here's the thing: You don't have to feel insecure about being an adult Nobody is going to condemn you for trying to do adult things and failing the first time. Most of being an adult is failing Look, we millennials have an uphill battle, okay. A battle for respect, so let's not play to the stereotypes, okay? They're making fun of us over there Don't be a dolt. Be an adult Wow, I just made my first Dad Joke. Very proud [laughs] Am I adult- Next week on Messy Mondays, Big-Head Kid makes his most adult choice yet. Hello Facebook friends, it is I. I have decided to take a break from Facebook and be a better person, unlike you. If you want to get in touch, you have my digits. Okay, now I'm just going to wait a few minutes before logging out just to, you know, see all the comments 