The Internet comes at you fast.  Mere hours after a French guy posted
 a plausible looking video of unidentified objects orbiting the moon, captured,
 of course, by an anonymous friend, hordes of keen-eyed
 cyber citizens analyzed every detail. They confirmed the phase and orientation
 of the moon against the time and place the footage is claimed
 to have been taken. Checks out. They identified the big crater: Endymion. They even calculated the size
 and speed of the objects: 10 to 20 kilometers across, traveling
 at a mere 300 000 kilometers an hour. Whoa, take it easy, nerd patrol. That's a lot of speculative math.  How about we let a certified
 expert weigh in? Like science communicator and allegedly
 bad astronomer, Dr. Phil Plait. Hi, Phil. Hey Captain. So, how fast should an object
 be orbiting the moon at this altitude? Well, a lot slower than 300 000
 kilometers per hour. There is a formula that lets you calculate
 how fast an orbit is. First, you take the mass of the ob— So you're telling me, the only way
 these things can be going that fast is if they're powered spacecraft
 operated by an alien intelligence? What?
No, I'm not saying that at all.  You're looking at this the wrong way.  You have to take a step back
 and look at the big picture. When a lot— Hold that thought, Phil. I just realized, we need to look
 at the big picture. It's not just the UFOs.  This entire video could be artificial!  Creating a CG moon seems easy enough. There's got to be a tutorial
 on that out there somewhere. Ah! Let's make a moon.  Add a UV sphere and give it a subsurf
 modifier. Smooth! Light the sphere from the side,
 all dramatic like. It already comes with a handy UV map.  All we need are some textures.
 Hey, look at that.  NASA's got us a whole CG moon kit. Aw, NASA, how'd you know? Plug the color texture into the base color
 input, run the displacement textures through the height input of a bump node  into the normal, and adjust
 the strength to looks about right. Neil deGrasse Tyson
 might have something to say,  but the mute button is right there.  Play with more settings. It looks great!  You're a good person.  Now just model some stars,
 a galactic portal, a fleet of starships, map the whole thing
 onto a screen in a futuristic pipe room, 3-D, track your green screen
 actor into it, and you're on your way to approaching a fraction
 of my unfathomable artistic prowess. Kneel before your Blender GOD. You know, those tutorials aren't
 as lazy as I thought. Still, some artists have made their own versions of the moon UFO video
 that are pretty on-point. This one by Mendezmendez 
is a close approximation. And this one by Katherine
  A. Ross imagines a different perspective It's almost as good
 as I could make if I wanted to. Sorry, Phil, you were saying? Thank you. What I was trying to say is there's no need to focus
 on all of the details when there's a more fundamental reason
 why this video is obviously a hoax. Of course, getting down to the
 fundamentals, observing the unobserved. You know the famous video experiment
 where you're asked to count how many times students pass the ball
 and you don't even notice the gorilla that walks in
 and makes out with one of them? No one has ever noticed the gorilla.  That's why the comments are turned off.  Just goes to show,
 sometimes you got to look past the obvious and take a holistic view. So let's strategically ignore
 the sexy moon and instead pay attention to its friends, the clouds. In these expensive stock shots
 captured around the world, real clouds crossing
 the moon flow in arbitrary directions. But in the UFO video, they scroll
 on a perfectly horizontal axis. I guess that could be a coincidence.  Let's line them all up, average
 the moon's scale, and retime the clouds to move
 at the same speed. In the stock footage, the shapes of
 the clouds are pretty static. But in the UFO video,
 they undulate wildly everywhere at once, the familiar simmer of expression-driven
 procedural noise. Same with the supposed heat
 distortion, which wobbles uniformly all over the image
 until suddenly vanishing completely on frame 856. It's as if someone forgot to extend  an After Effects
 adjustment layer to the end of the shot. Hate when that happens.  And what about the optics of it all?  The moon is 384 000 kilometers away, and we're zooming in on a zip code
 with a telescope. At this focal length. Even the slightest camera bumps should
 cause us to lose it out of shot entirely. This looks more like the shaking  of a moderately long lens
 aiming at a neighbor's window. But the big shake at the start
 reveals something else. Most things that stretch
 the height of the frame in homemade video usually skew in lateral motion
 because of rolling shutter. But here, the moon's crescent shape
 stays perfectly solid during the shake. We already know that
 global shutter cameras, which avoid this problem,
 are hard to come by these days. So which kind did this anonymous
 amateur astronomer use for their hundreds
 of hours of moon footage? Probably the virtual kind inside
 animation software, which might also explain the motion blur 
length consistent with the usually default perfectly calibrated cinematic 180
 degree shutter angle. The clues were all there, in plain sight. Isn't that right, Phil Plait?  Oh, I can talk now?  Yeah, that's not what I meant
 at all Captain. Huh? I was talking about
 corroborating evidence. You can analyze the imperfections
 of this video all you want, but at any time there are thousands of people
 observing the moon through a telescope. Right. So...  So if objects
 dozens of kilometers across moving at dozens of kilometers per second are flying around
 off the edge of the moon? I'm guessing somebody
 else would have seen them. Yeah, that makes sense. But couldn't you have told me
 that earlier, before I did all this work? Oh, for F— Jeez, astronomers. Well, you heard it here last folks. Professionals and amateurs alike have been staring at the moon
 continuously since it was invented. There would have been more videos.  And I would have been tagged in each
 and every one of them. "Paging Captain Disillusion"
 or "Get on this Captain", or just @ my name and nothing else like I'm being CC'd on an internal memo, like I'm a virtual assistant
 in Microsoft Debunk 95. Do I look like a damn paperclip to you? 