(upbeat music) - What? (upbeat music) Woah. (upbeat music) They really did that? It has been a long time
since Apple has excited me quite this much into the event. Yes, Apple's M1 reveal was groundbreaking and a turning point for the
whole computer industry. But this chip, this is
the M1 all growed up. And not only that, it
comes in this package. Let me tell you why that excites me, almost as much as our sponsor, Jackery. Thanks to Jackery for
sponsoring this video. Jackery's got a 15% off site-wide sale for all of their solar
generators on both jackery.com and Jackery's Amazon store
from October 18th to the 20th. Click the link in
description to learn more. (upbeat music) Apple didn't lead with
it, but I'm going to. The M1 Pro and M1 Max processors. These are the first evolution
of the M1 architecture since Apple silicon first became a thing and they bring a host of
improvements to the table. For one, they skew towards performance with six or eight high-speed
cores for heavy lifting and just two efficiency
cores for lightweight tasks. In the case of the bigger chip, this doubles the performance
on tap compared to M1, assuming the core clocks
are the same, of course. The GPU has also grown
up from the eight cores on M1 with up to 16 or even 32 cores on M1 Pro and Max respectively. And it's got an expanded
media engine that can encode and decode ProRes so well that it supposedly out
does a 24 core Mac Pro with an afterburner accelerator card. - That's more streams
than on a 28 core Mac Pro with afterburner. - What's more impressive than even that is the memory bandwidth, which is up to 200 gigabytes
per second on the Pro model and 400 for the Max, primarily thanks to the expanded memory
capacities with these chips. With M1 clocking in at about
60 gigabytes per second, this implies that not only
is the additional memory being laid out in more channels, it's also potentially clocked higher. For reference, conventional
CPUs running DDR4 memory, they get between 18 and
35 gigabytes per second. And the memory used by
most current gen GPU's is 448 gigabytes per second. And with Apple silicon, that data doesn't even need
to be copied from the CPU to the GPU like the Intel
Maxs and PCs have to. So that's some spicy performance
potential to say the least. And when we look at performance, hey, Apple finally caved and
labeled their graphs complete with the competitor
their comparing against. They're not perfect. Like they don't say what
benchmarks they were using in every case. Like these ones here just say, select industry standard benchmarks. But hey, it's a start, I guess. For now they claim double
the CPU and GPU performance over the Quad Core M1 and as
much as twice the performance of the previous gen 16 inch
MacBook Pro with a core I9. The GPU options supposedly
come in between 2.5 times and four times faster
than any previous MacBook with a dedicated GPU. They didn't specifically mention
whether the neural engine was improved in any
meaningful way over M1 though, but they do claim that the
machine learning performance that they get is five times faster than that core I9 MacBook. So take that how you will. Of course, these performance
numbers come attached to two completely redesigned MacBooks, in 14 inch and 16 inch sizes. Apple made a big deal about how all that extra unified memory means the GPU has way
more of it to work with than any other laptop. - Apps have dramatically more memory for the most demanding graphics tasks. No other notebook even comes close. - And for once, outside of external GPUs, this is uncontested truth,
especially for the 14 inch. The best NVIDIA Quadros are
equipped with 24 gigs of Ram with most sitting at 16 or under, which makes this a very
Pro differentiator. Even if it's a little bit niche. Both new MacBooks are a
little heavier and thicker than previous gen and kind of remind me of how the old polycarbonate
MacBooks used to look. Unlike those dinosaurs, the new MacBooks featured
bezels of just 3.5 millimeters, albeit marred by a iPhone style notch. It looks like it's big enough
to hold face ID sensors in the future, but for
now it's only being used for the upgraded 10 ADP webcam. The camera itself has
been updated significantly from previous 1080p models
with a four element lens and F 2.0 aperture. Although we'll have to see for ourselves if that's really a big
upgrade considering how well Apple's image signal
processing already works. It's almost as good as our
insulated water bottles from lttstore.com. Now with a new LGA design and new colors. Apple was careful not to
show off the notch too much in marketing materials though. Mostly because they know that
outlets like Linus Tech Tips will complain about it. Personally, I just wish we
had a reason to have it. Macs have traditionally
played with display edges so I don't mind it that much here. I honestly think it'll be
less annoying for a MacBook seeing is that area is normally reserved for a piece of the top bar, unless you're in full screen
mode and the slightly taller than 16 by 10 aspect ratio means that standard widescreen
content is gonna fit without that notch ever interfering. Speaking of the display, the new liquid retina XDR
is a 10 bit panel capable of the thousand nits sustained brightness and 1600 peak all at a
resolution just shy of 4k, which I mean, let's be real here, it might as well be 4k
at these pixel densities. For the backlight, Apple claims to have
packed 10,000 mini LEDs into the display, which would mean 2,500 local dimming zones if it's using the same quad led layout as the Pro display XDR
and 12.9 inch iPad Pro. That's not even the best part though. The new display is also capable of 120 Hertz dynamic
refresh rate like the iPad. So Macs can finally enjoy
the buttery smoothness and improved battery life
that iPad users have had for years now. And Windows 11 users recently got albeit with a smaller range. They still offer a fixed refresh rates representing clean multiples
of common fill and media if you need it. And you might end up
playing back a lot of media if the upgrades to the
speakers are any indication. Aside from spatial audio, which it didn't quite live up to Apple's virtual surround
sound promises on the iMac, but provided exceptional stereo imaging, both new MacBooks feature an
upgraded six speaker array that Apple says displaces
twice the amount of air from previous generation MacBooks. Considering how excellent
Apple speakers have been over the past couple of generations, this could be a new bar for laptops and you can be sure we're
going to crab rave it. In fact, we kind of
went on a spending spree and got every permutation
of the new MacBooks. So we can thoroughly review
the first major redesign in a long, long time. So get subscribed so you don't miss it. But what if you want headphones? Well, Apple's got you covered. They proudly exclaimed
that they're adding ports to the new MacBook Pro and not only is there a headphone jack, they say it's capable of driving
high impedance headphones. - On one side, there's an HDMI port for conveniently connecting
to displays and TVs. A Thunderbolt four port, which connects to high-speed peripherals and an SD card slot enabling
fast access to media. On the other side, the headphone jack now
has advanced support for high impedance headphones. And there are two more
Thunderbolt four ports for a total of three in the system. - So depending on what they mean by that, audio files and users of studio monitors may no longer need an external amplifier. And do my eyes deceive me? It cannot be. MacSafe is back? MagSafe is back and it's
capable of fast charging up to 50% capacity in 30 minutes flat which is damn impressive given how high battery life already is. Or you can charge via the
Thunderbolt ports for docking to say a Pro displaced XDR
or two Pro display XDR. Or with the 16 inch,
three Pro display XDRs and a 4k TV, simultaneously. No more dongle book. Not only that, but the
new blackout key deck and full height function key row finally brings Apple's magic
keyboard back into the, yeah, I want that territory for me. Some people are going to miss
the touch bar and I know, and I think it was a good idea in theory that maybe they could throw it
up above the keyboard someday in the future, or maybe they could give
us multiple touch bars down next to the track pad. Just don't touch my function keys, okay? My precious, precious function keys. Apple has basically taken
every major complaint that their users have had
about the recent MacBook Pros and rectified them with the sole exception of the glowing Apple logo. Seriously, I can't be the only one who desperately wants that back, can I? I mean, they brought back the bong. (bong sound) They also brought back the
HDMI port and the SD card slot. They even brought back MagSafe. I guess the one thing that I would trade the glowing Apple for would be repairability. But that ship has
probably sailed for good. At least all the aluminum is recyclable. Pricing is a bit harder to swallow though. Starting at $2,000 for the base model with two missing CPU and GPU cores and a five 12 gig SSD,
PCI express gen four, yes, but five 12 gigs is a tough sell given how capable M1 already is. It's an extra $300 to get
the standard M1 Pro SOC and $700 to get the top end M1 Max. What's worse, the 64 gig memory option is only available with an M1 Max, although given that option itself is $800, you probably don't care
about the cost of the laptop to begin with, I guess. I was talking to our resident Mac guy, Mark, who recently had an
Intel Extreme tech upgrade. And he mentioned that it's
basically matched spec for spec with the Dell XPS, which is something that
I didn't catch at first. And I am grateful that he caught. I guess laptops are just expensive now. And what's even worse than all of that is the base model power
adapter for the 14 inch. It's just 67 watts. That's incapable of fast charging. So you're not even getting
one of the advertised features if you don't pay an extra $20. Are your margins that thin Apple? Do you really got a nickel
and dime people like that? It was bad enough with the 24
inch iMac's Ethernet adapter. It's starting to feel
like pay DLC over here, like a 14 inch with full-fat
M1 Pro, 32 gigs of Ram, a terabyte of storage
will set you back $2,900, which is, I mean, in my
opinion, frankly obscene, unless the performance really does beat the best Windows laptops around. Of course, not everything is about Mac. Apple also announced
third generation AirPods featuring very AirPods pro styling and an extremely similar case design. Now with MagSafe for some reason. In fact, these things
incorporate most of the features that made the AirPods Pro special with the exception of
active noise canceling and removable tips. Audio quality should be better
than previous gen AirPods. Same deal with battery life
and fast charging is able to provide up to an hour
of additional listening in just five minutes. They'll still be selling
last gen air pods for 129, but these will go on sale for 179. One thing apple didn't announce today is the new Pro Mac Mini
that we were expecting with a new SOC, a slimmer
design and more ports. Most of the other leaks were
pretty accurate right down to the notch. So unless they got this one thing wrong, Apple could be trying to manage
their limited silicon supply by delaying it. Whatever the case, you
can order all this today with order shipping next week. Although from our
experience, the up model Macs will take some time. You don't have to take your
time with our sponsor though. Micro Center. Thanks to Micro Center
for sponsoring this video. Micro Center is one of
the best places to shop for all of your technology needs. You can get the best
prices and best selection on computer hardware and
everything else technology at any one of Micro Center's
25 locations across the U.S. Check out Micro Centers new lineup of MAINGEAR Vector Pro laptops. They come in both a 15.6
and 17.3 inch option, and your choice of Intel or AMD processor, and they can be configured
with an RTX 3070 or 3080. New customers can check the
link below in the description for a coupon code for a
free 240 gigabyte SSD, no purchase necessary, in store only. Thanks for watching guys. If you want more Apple, why not go check out how Apple
almost ruined my vacation? It's not as bad as it sounds. Just so many bugs and design oversights. 