(Where is this place?)
(A filming site of flaylist!) Mera is looking at me (Laughs) Oh, you came out pretty! Hi, Mera! This is... It's been a long time since
I've done this with Mera Yeah (Jiwon taking pictures of
the youngest member Jiheon) Oh Oh, my! I'm hot What did I say?
(LOL) (Saerom & Jiwon stretching
before shooting) Can I stretch my legs well today? Sure Can I or not?
(Split) Guys, today... we're back with the 'White bar
rice cake' concept for flover Everyone's divided over whether to
dip in grain syrup or soy sauce We'll do our best
without arguing Good luck!
(White bar rice cake fromis_9? Way to go!) Do you dip your bar rice cake
in grain syrup or soy sauce? - Grain syrup!
- Grain syrup! Oh, but I'll go for soy sauce
for Soup rice cakes! I've never had it before - I had it for the first time in Busan
- How about you? I'll go for grain syrup! - What a beautiful world!
- I want to eat that roasted one Look over there Indeed, Saerom's practicing today...  (Practice makes perfect!
Saerom practicing hard again) I hope I can hold
your hand today Like this... (Kind and sweet) This is for you! You might catch a cold
You need to dry your hair Oh, it's cold
Shivering! Ever since she
left the dorm... Oh, right
I didn't dry my hair... Jiwon! (Joke) What happened
to your knee? Why are you kneeling? fromis_9, Hi! 'Break Up with Your Girlfriend, I'm Bored' Choreography filming site! I'm wearing these earrings Go for it! (Practicing the moves together
before starting the official shoot) (fromis_9 matching the path
with their choreographer) Okay! - Got it!
- Got it! Good luck! (Oh, my ears...)
Wait! I can't hear Actually, we're in a
secret relationship (Checking moves thoroughly!)
(fromis_9 practicing all the time♥) Good! Mera, today... I brought a concept today I can't do a girlfriend
concept today For today... It's kind of... Ex-girlfriend concept! What's wrong with her? (Hi, Despacito girls!)
(A combination of Jiwon & Seoyeon) This is my hairstyle
for 'Despacito'! ♪ Despacito ♪ ♪ Quiero respirar Tu cuello despacito ♪ (Working hard)  I'm waiting for my turn When those members are done, I'm on the second
team of five! (Haha) (The shooting started!) (Always check the monitor thoroughly!) You're cool, Saerom Oh, show me your back Turn around, please
(Professional Saerom's photo time) Chaeyoung, I look very tall - Yeah, you look like 6.5ft tall
- Exactly I'm gonna shoot it myself Ah- Okay (Leaving without looking back) (Checking dance moves and camera
movements before starting the shoot!) Bam! It came out pretty You came out so pretty Huh? I watched it on the monitor (Victory) (Puzzled) I did this, but none
of my hair was swept back (Keep practicing for great
 pictures and movements!) Sweep it like this - Like this?
- Yeah. That's how it works  I'm cooling me down (It's hot) - It's like a horror special
- Yeah It is a ghost photograph Gosh! You look like Toshio (Toshio Nagyung?) You look pretty today What happened to my hair? Thank you Don't I look like a
baby today? Huh? (Nope...) Bar rice cakes on my palm! Let's dip them in grain syrup One, two, three One, two, three Rubber balls! That's my girl! (It's not oily hair)
Wet hairstyle - A little... greasy...
- Greasy hairstyle! These hairstyles are
in vogue these days But don't forget to wash your hair Of course
(Sniffing) - Oh, it stinks
- Hey - The top of your head needs to be dry
- That's right (fromis_9 working hard until the end) Two, three!
Thank you for your hard work! (Surprise gift for flover- Ariana Grande's
'Break Up with Your Girlfriend, I'm Bored') (Please love the flaylist video
fromis_9 worked hard on!) 