Suppose we’re working with aliens who live
near Alpha Centauri to build a wormhole teleporter so we can go visit them - for dinner, or interstellar
diplomacy, or whatever. Of course we’ll need to be able to talk with them about what
to make each side of the portal out of, how big to make the various pieces, and so on.
But since we’ve never been to Alpha Centauri, and they’ve never been here, this is tricky
– I mean, if you tell me to make you an arc that’s 300 cubits long, and I don’t
know what a cubit is, you’ll probably get an arc that’s not exactly what you were
hoping for . So we’ll have to build, from the ground
up, an easily sharable way of communicating about the universe, where distances and such
are based on ideas, rather than specific artifacts . We’d probably start with basic materials,
you know, like how instead of sending a vial with a chunk of lithium in it across interstellar
space, we can just say “use the atom that has 3 protons, 3 neutrons, and 3 electrons.”
Water would be “the molecule that’s a combination of one atom with 8 protons and
two atoms with 1 proton.” And so on. Once we have materials down, we can do clocks
– we just tell the aliens that if they take the atom with 55 protons and 78 neutrons , make
it emit a photon of light in a certain way , and wait for that photon to oscillate 9,192,631,770
times: that’s what we call one second. Once we have clocks, we can do distances:
just tell the aliens to see how far light goes in one 299,792,458th of a second – that’s
what we call a meter. But this is when we would run into a massive
roadblock – literally. Pretty much the rest of our communication about the universe
requires knowing what mass is, and what we currently call a kilogram isn’t an idea
we can just tell distant aliens, the way we can say “the atom with 3 protons”. A kilogram
is just a particular lump of metal sitting in a particular room in a particular place
on our planet , and if you want to know how many kilograms of say, antimatter, you have,
you have to take it there and weigh them against each other .
In the very near future, we’re going to settle on a more sensible way of talking about
mass, so instead of saying “in order to build this teleporter you have to come to
the part of earth with good cheese so we can show you our shiny lump of metal,” , we’ll
either be telling the aliens to just get a pile of something like 21.5253873 septillion
of the atom that has 14 protons and 14 neutrons, or we’ll tell them to weigh how much mass
an atom or molecule loses after emitting a photon of light that oscillates roughly 135.6392534
septillion septillion times each second. One of these two concepts will be our new kilogram,
and even though the pile of atoms option sounds simpler in principle, it’s actually kind
of harder and more expensive to do in practice. Whichever way it is, once we have our new
way of communicating about mass as an idea instead of an object, we’ll be able to build
our wormhole teleporter with the alpha centaurians . And then we can bring them here to earth,
have dinner, and afterwards, show them the chunk of metal that used to be THE THING that
we used to talk about the mass of all other things.
Before I tell you about this video’s sponsor, 