Hello, Solarsido This is Solar. Today's challenge is Mamamoo members styling challenge But today there is a big match It's not just styling and the end We are doing a big match, For today's video, we are doing it together with ABLY Thank You. At the video's end, there's a present so please wait until then and watch till the end. There are a lot of clothes here right now Let's watch the unboxing video first Let's watch it Do you see alll the parcels in front of me? You see it right? I bought all the clothes through the ABLY app 1000,000 won. FLEX !!! We're going to be styling all the clothes but I am not doing it alone. There is a guest for today. So, Guest please come out It's Big Yong. -You Hiii! -What? --Youtube Hi -Ohhh... Everyone Yoo hiii!! Older Yong sis and I will be styling Mamamoo looks To explain it simply, Big yong sis will style Mamamoo members look that she has personally seen from afar. I will style the looks as a member of Mamamoo. Should we open this? -Let's start! -When we do shopping, this is the most fun part. A present from me by myself. Members' look, I have always seen it but to style it by myself is quite difficult The looks that I thought in my mind by using the filter feature, size and height. Being able to choose height too was fascinating. The search filter feature made it easier to quickly search clothes. - It's pretty. -It's pretty just like this. Look at my styling Yong sisters unboxing Ably app is a shopping app that has gathered a huge number of stores and shopping malls There are a lot of products. It also shows what I personally like. It has a smart algorithm. Even if there are a lot fo products, it helps you find things of your choice easily Job holders always do online shopping so The app helps a lot to find things at one time We did the unboxing first today we chose the clothes well and the quality is also high so I was quite surprised. Now we will start styling these clothes. So should we do the styling, let's get it? Leggo!! Subscribe and Like The styling match with big yong has now started. As for me, I know a lot about Mamamoo's real style and big yong knows it from audience's perspective. Our views are different so I am curious about the result of this big match The clothes we're wearing right now are also from ABLY so if you have clothes that you like, please find them at ABLY Who should we start from? Sol Mon Whee Hwa There's always an order for us called Sol Mon Whee Hwa Solar Moonbyul Wheein Hwasa - this  is the order Should we start with Solar? Solar, let's get it. We started with Solar's styling first. I will explain it first. Usually, I like comfortable clothes. One piece dress  like this,its easy When it is hot, I wear this dress only. And if it gets a little cold, I wear a jacket like this I style like this. It's comfortable yet stylish. Normcore look. This is all "too much effort look" Oh, is it? -Yes It feels normal to just wear clothes so I used some gold accessories Usually I wear slippers or sneakers I especially put effort today and wore these boots and for sister's styling I, for now -I like it, this is my style Ah I won this This dress has an A-line shape, to make waist look slimmer and hip bigger. Hips looking big is the point here. And I thought to wear heels here would look a bit weird so I matched with western boots And Solar loves these kinds of gold accessories so I layered two necklaces. We choose the products well so the quality is pretty high so I like them Corner within corner - Copy Solar's pose.   - When did I make such a pose?  - That's a monkey pose.   - I am not used to this too. Vote now. -Why am I nervous? so the first winner is big yong. -I too like this style.   So this is Moonbyul's styling To explain, Byul really like jackets with slacks. and match them with sneakers. She usually wears tshirts inside and styles it with silver accessories as point. -This is so not Byul. -This is Byul!!! I am saying this is Byul right here. As for me, Byul wears caps a lot. -Yes, that's right. She likes to wear sets and for point, this kind of fancy white shirt this is the point. -Yes, she does like this type of point. - With this kind of feel. -What was that? -I just did it. - She doesn't do that. -Byul doesn't wear lipstick. Now, let's follow Byul's pose.   Moonbyul's styling between big yong and little yong-  little yong and big yong   It's 2:0 Big yong wins!! There's no Byul here. -Byul is here, this is totally Byul.   It's Wheein's styling this time, show the back   So Wheein wear many dresses and skirts, and match it with boots I saw these kinds of looks a lot so I am wearing this one piece and I couldn't find rubber bands so I used these clips in a rush and I layered three necklaces and Wheein uses bucket hats too so I styled this Wheein needs to have a mole. This is the point Wheein's vibe with the hair, I don't know if she wears clips but I used them anyways Wheein looks good in this kind of bohemian style clothing and Indie style vibe and end it with this pose Let's do Wheein's pose   The match between big yong and small young - third round this is Wheein's styling so let's vote now   - Okay! Big yong versus small yong. Solar wins!!   We have started Hwasa's styling Hye Jon also likes comfortable clothes so I am wearing big jeans and rolled them up and she also wears heels with a little height so I wore these heels. She likes halter tops. -It's not halter. -Then what is it? -It's just strap top. - She wears strap tops like these. Her shoulders are really pretty so to highlight them, she wear this kind of top and she also loves crop style so I styled it this way I have this hip-style bag as the point   and I wore this top with gold acessories and pants with straight lines like these with strap heels Strap heels are the trend these days and  hair is important here She always parts it in 7:3 with volume. Let's do Hye Jin's pose   Why did she pose that way High pose What is this?   So the people here, choose after the count of three - Oh mu God Wait, do it again.   Is it 2-1 right now? -Thank You -Why?!! The big match - Big Yong wins!! So far, we did Mamamoo member's styling let's hear about how you are feeling I am feeling really good, I won once last time too so I was wondering when my sister will win but that couldn't happen Let me win -Okay, then win The members style is really different but through Ably app, we could do it all at once so  it was nice and I think my sister also had fun choosing clothes -Yes, it was really fun and there is something I have prepared. It's Solar coupon. Ably has prepared a Solar coupon for you guys the coupon details will be shown here The way to use the coupon You can use this solar coupon, it also has a deadline of two weeks so do order what you like within that time I will come back with another cool challenge so please wait a little. Goodbye Subscribe and Like In the big match Mamamoo members' styling challenge, I lost. I did not think I would lose. I thought I would obviously win At least in Solar's look. I am Solar but I cannot understand why I lost. I want to say this to three of you that rather than pretty clothes, you have to vote similar styling looks. That's the rule. But we did Solar look and how could I lose? I cannot understand it. It's Solar styling and how can Solar herself lose? Isn't that strange? 