I’m not known for the cleanest or most minimal
setups. It’s function over form all the way for
me, and I’m someone who needs a LOT of function. But, what if I truly needed to fit into a
smaller space? Could I make a setup that would work? If I had a much smaller bedroom growing up,
or moved into a dorm, or something? I sat out to accomplish what would basically
be my college gaming, multi-media, and YouTube-ing setup if I needed to stick to a MUCH smaller
space - hooked up all with ONE cable! Sorta. Let’s take a look right after a word from
our sponsor and whatnot. I’m EposVox here to make tech easier and
more fun today. Before we jump in, I do need to disclose a
couple things: Most of what you see here was provided for free for review. I bought a couple things, but not the majority
of the setup. And the laptop itself is part of a sponsored
campaign from Intel. But this is an individual video with no one
seeing it before it goes up or anything like that. No one paid to specifically show up in this
video. So with this, I wound up with 3 main objectives
I wanted to focus on: Keeping the setup as small as possible, confining it to my 4 foot
by 2 and a half foot b-roll table in my studio. I also wanted it to be a sit/stand desk setup,
as I’ve never used one before. Lastly, I wanted to take advantage of my first
Thunderbolt 3-bearing laptop and try to have everything connect with just a SINGLE Thunderbolt
3 cable. Lofty goals, but I think it turned out alright! And before I get the obligatory comment about
it - no, it’s not minimalistic. I still stuck to my guns and focused on function
first. Plus, for me in this kind of setup, modularity
would be important - and you’d want to be able to keep an eye on cables when raising
and lowering the sit/stand surface. For that, we have the M2B from Flexispot. This converts your standard desk to a sit-stand
setup with a tablet holder and a keyboard tray. It can hold up to 35 pounds and was perfect
for this scenario. Getting it onto the table was fun, it was
hella difficult to unbox and weighs a ton! But it doesn’t budge or slide around on
the table or anything. The surface itself is VERY slippery, though,
and prone to scratching. But it’s super sturdy, and very easy to
use. Simply grip the levers on both side and raise
and lower, as desired. It’s easy to move without feeling like it’s
going to fall, and let’s you lock it into just about any position. It’s no UpDesk, but it’s pretty nice. Next up is the centerpiece - my EVGA SC15
gaming laptop. This beauty features an Intel Core i7-7700HQ,
an Nvidia GTX 1060, and a GSYNC 120hz 1080p IPS display. Perfect for gaming and editing - and if you
can handle the weight, it can go with you to class. It does get pretty loud, though, to cool all
that beefy hardware. This laptop has a USB Type C Thunderbolt 3
port on it. Despite the disappointing market of unoriginal
“here’s a few USB ports and a LAN port” Thunderbolt 3 docks at the moment, the idea
to make this a “1 cable setup” was born here. I hit up CalDigit and got their Thunderbolt
Station 3 in. This little box adds 3 USB 3.1 type A ports,
gigabit ethernet, 2 eSATA ports (didn’t know anyone still used that), Thunderbolt
Passthrough and a full-size Displayport hookup, along with 3.5mm audio in and out jacks. This will support a 5K monitor, or 4 4K monitors
using the Thunderbolt out and Displayport ports and really expands functionality. To be honest, though, for my needs I would’ve
preferred a couple more USB ports and maybe a SD reader instead of eSATA, but hey. So The TS3 Dock runs to wall power to this
giant 24-outlet powerbar that serves as my studio charging station and I began hooking
things up to it. We’ve got my WASD Custom V2 keyboard with
MX Blue switches, the ASUS Impresario BluRay drive and DAC, as well as the Logitech BRIO
webcam and the Elgato Stream Deck. I feel this is a good balance of products
to provide a solid multimedia and gaming experience. A pair of AKG M220 headphones run to the ASUS
DAC for high-quality output and 7.1 virtual surround support. The suspension band style and soft ear pads
are perfect for long gaming or movie watching sessions via the BluRay drive. The audio in port of the CalDigit dock is
occupied by the Aokeo AK-80 microphone mounted on a super basic desk arm. This is Aokeo’s variant on the BM800 microphone
and is a 24 dollar condenser microphone to get some decent vocals for YouTube-ing or
streaming. Much better than the microphone I started
YouTube with that cost much more. It includes a basic windscreen, shock mount,
and XLR to 3.5mm cable. The mic arm is mounted directly to the sit-stand
desk so it rises and lowers with the desk and can be adjusted out of your way as needed. The BRIO webcam is mounted on a Mactren tripod
up above the laptop. Also mounted is a tiny Aputure AL-M9 LED light
that will help light your face to make facecam look a little better and keep the BRIO at
a smooth 60fps. I have this setup in front of a window, so
during the day you could just open the blinds for some nice facecam lighting, too. Now, I was going to use the Elgato Cam Link
with a cheap action camera via HDMI to set up the facecam for this. But neither the Cam Link, my AVerMedia ExtremeCap
UVC or my Magewell dongle would work through this Caldigit dock. It has more than enough bandwidth, so I’m
not sure what the problem is. Drivers would install but I’d never get
more than a black screen unless the devices were plugged directly into the laptop. So you could still run that setup for better
facecam, but would break the “one cable” rule here. I simply ran the Brio with a USB C to C cable
into the second Thunderbolt port on the dock and we were back in business. The webcam and light are on a cheap Mactrem
tripod that can be adjusted to angle at you based on the sit-stand configuration. Behind the setup we have a curve ball of an
awesome setup piece - the Elgato Green Screen. Since this setup is focused on being compact
and modular, I thought this was a perfect fit. The Elgato Green Screen collapses into a low-profile
case that can be stored in closets, under beds or under couches, but extends to a full
chroma key backdrop in a matter of seconds. Perfect for a small space stream setup. For a mouse, I just have the Logitech MX Anywhere
2S connected via Bluetooth. This isn’t the best for gaming, but is great
for work on the go. You could introduce a wired gaming mouse for
this setup - but that would require a USB hub on the dock or plugging it into the laptop
directly - unless you got a gaming keyboard with a USB port on it. That is an option, I guess. The Elgato Stream Deck provides a great control
tool for streaming and recording and the included stand makes it easy to adjust height based
on your sitting or standing position! Lastly, I also have the original what was
supposed to be “limited edition” Razer metal headphone stand to hold our cans, and
my favorite Portal 2 coaster to hold your favorite beverage. The obligatory tech YouTuber fake plant adds
some color to the left, and I have a basic Boston Harbor desk lamp with a colored light
for some flair. If you plan on streaming with this setup,
you would probably want a second monitor or tablet or something to monitor Twitch chat. If this setup was against a wall instead of
a window, you could wall-mount a monitor and run it to the video output on the dock. That way it’s all there ready to go when
you dock the laptop. Or you could ditch the tripod, put the monitor
on the desk, and clamp the webcam to the monitor. However, I do have to admit that this technically
isn’t a “single cable” setup - despite all of my efforts. You see, the EVGA SC-15 is a beastly laptop
and requires a very hefty power supply. It does not support charging over USB type
C. So while literally everything else plugs in with the single Thunderbolt 3 cable, running
the power brick on its own is still necessary. However if you have a lighter laptop like
the Macbook or similar USB C-charging computers, the dock will charge the computer as well. One thing I did like was that even when lowered
all the way flush with the desk, there’s still enough room under the sit-stand desk
for all of the power bricks to comfortably rest out of the way, without dropping them
to the floor. Very nice. So this is it! Nothing too flair-y, but a functional and
effective setup that my younger self would’ve been proud of. Would you use a setup like this? What would you do differently? Comment below. Otherwise, drop-kick that like button, get
subscribed for more awesome tech videos, and I’ll see you in the next one! EposVox is a Patreon-supported production. Our videos would simply not be possible without
the support and generosity of our patrons - whom you can see on-screen now. If you'd like to join the inner-circle and
get early access to videos, among other things, go to Patreon.com/EposVox to learn more. 