When you ask someone to draw a star, they'll
probably draw something like this - or this or this. Even ignoring the rainbows, this
doesn't seem very scientific, since we know stars are actually big hot ROUND balls of
plasma and far enough away that they're basically just dots. So why do we draw stars that have
points? The answer is surprisingly simple: we see
stars as pointy. Look carefully next time you're outside on a dark night - or just look
at this dot (it works best if you make the video fullscreen, close one eye, and relax
the other as if you're looking at something far away). You should see a pointy, star-like
shape! In fact, it's not just humans that see pointy stars - some telescopes see them
that way, too! This is all because light is a wave. When
light from a distant source passes through an opening or around an object, its waves
are bounced or bent slightly and interfere with each other, so the passing light picks
up an imprint of that opening or object. A straight line (whether it's a slit letting
light through or a rod blocking the light) leaves its imprint by spreading the light
out into a perpendicular series of dashes (- like what you see when you squint!) A cross
creates two, perpendicular, sets of dashes, circles cause concentric rings, squares spawn
a kind of dashed four-pointed star, hexagons dashed six-pointed stars; and the famous double
slit experiment gives a series of dashed dashes. My favorite diffraction pattern, though, is
probably that of the Penrose tiling - it's simply gorgeous… not that you see Penrose-tiling-shaped
openings very often. But… the point of all of these imprints is that they're the result
of a point of light being spread out when viewed through a particular opening or past
a particular object. For example, the Hubble space telescope has
four struts that support its small secondary mirror, and their imprint causes the 4-pointed
stars in hubble photos. And I bet you can guess the shape of the aperture on the lens
that took this picture. Similarly, the lenses of our eyes have subtle structural imperfections
called suture lines where the fibers that make up the lens meet. These imperfections
leave a very particular imprint on light as it passes by, as researchers have confirmed
by shining lasers in people’s eyes. So, even though stars themselves are just
tiny round dots, by the time the light reaches our retina, it's been smeared out into a starlike
shape. Every single eye on earth will see a slightly different starlike smear depending
on the exact nature of its suture lines - even your left and right eyes will differ! What's
weird, though, is that any particular eye sees the same shape for every star - so while
it is scientifically acceptable to draw stars like this, if you draw more than one in a
single picture, you better make sure they're all the exact same shape! On top of that, since diffraction spreads
longer wavelength red light out more than bluer light, the arms of these star-shapes
are actually mini-rainbows with red on the outside and blue in the middle! Which, again,
you can see in hubble photographs or if you look even more carefully at a single point
of light. So as crazy as it sounds, coloring in stars with rainbows is super scientifically
accurate - as long as the colors go the right 