20% off by being of the first 424 people to
sign up at brilliant.org/HAI. So I hear you want to learn why the world’s
smallest country has a railroad. Well, the Vatican has a railroad because the
Roman Empire was awesome. There’s the answer. Now I know what you’re thinking—“you
just gave me the answer why should I stick around for the rest of the video?” The Vatican, like Canada, is a pretty cool
place. It has the world’s highest density of Popes,
the world’s highest wine consumption per capita, and compared to me it’s pretty huge. Compared to other countries, though, it’s
on the smaller side. It’s about 3,000 feet wide and 2,500 feet
tall. If you took the tallest building in the world,
the Burj Khalifa, and laid it on its side over the Vatican you would be responsible
for the death of thousands. Despite its small size, the Vatican is a fully
recognized and sovereign country with its own government, its own banks, own stamps,
own passports, postal system, radio station, police officers, fire fighters, and, of course,
railroad. Being smack dab in the middle of Rome, it’s
not exactly hard to get to the Vatican. There are no border controls between it and
Italy so anyone can pretty much stroll into the country without even realizing and there
are also, of course, roads going in and out. Now, considering the runway of the nearby
Rome Fiumicino Airport is more than twice as long as the Vatican is wide, there is no
airport in the country. This isn’t all that unique. Four other countries don’t have airports—Andorra,
Liechtenstein, Monaco, and San Marino. Now, it would’t be unreasonable to think
that the Vatican, the smallest country in the world, also doesn’t have a railroad
because plenty of countries don’t have railroads. Libya, the 16th largest country in the world,
does not have a foot of functional railroad track but there are a lot of things Libya
doesn’t have… like a functional government. Even some of the world’s most highly developed
nations like Qatar and Iceland lack trains. I don’t know if it’s related but both
countries have some interesting beliefs—Iceland believes in Elves and Qatar believes in wealth
disparity. The Vatican though, has a railroad and quite
fittingly, it’s the smallest national railroad in the world. But why? Now for the worst part of the video—the
bit you actually learn stuff. So, back during the Roman Empire Italy looked
like this—it was all together. But then the Roman Empire stopped existing
which was a bummer unless you were Theoderic the Great who ruled a united Italy under the
Ostrogothic Kingdom until that fell and they eventually became part of the Frankish empire,
which frankly sucked, and so Italy fell apart faster than a Kickstarter funded startup into
a bunch of city-states as it remained for the next 1000 years until people remembered
how awesome the Roman Empire was and decided that Italy should be united once again. Everyone thought that was a great idea except
the Pope who controlled this land—the Papal States. The new Kingdom of Italy disagreed with the
Vatican’s obviously irrational desire to keep hold of the only territory they had so
they took it and so the Pope wasn’t happy. For the next 60 years the different popes
did not leave the presently unrecognized country of the Vatican at all as a way to protest
Italy’s claim to Rome which is exactly the level of stubbornness I admire. That was until 1929 when the two parties signed
the Lateran Treaty which said, “hey, we’re chill,” in exchange for money, a recognized
sovereign state, and a free railroad. The Vatican rail line originates in Rome at
a nearby rail station, curves off over a viaduct, then enters the state through a 35 ton iron
gate that’s closed when there’s no traffic to keep Italy from invading by train which
I guess was a concern? Immediately on the other side of the wall
is the Vatican City train station. While this whole branch is run by the country,
only about 200 feet of track are actually within the Vatican which definitively makes
this the smallest national railroad in the world. You could walk from one end of the line to
the other faster than you could walk to the moon. This railroad has been occasionally used by
Popes to get to the Papal summer palace south-east of Rome, but nowadays its main purpose is
to get food and supplies in and out of the country without having to drive trucks through
the crowded streets of Rome. With the exception of a once-weekly train
for tourists, there are no scheduled passenger trains to the station. 