Soul_G: Hello! Mon E: Who are you? Soul_G: How are you? Mong E: like I said, Who are you?! Soul_G: Hello, Here are Choco, and Mong E! Today's Protagonists! Heo, Mong E, and Heo, Choco Heo, Mong E (Male) 3 years old, Cute Heo, Choco (Female) 5 years old, Discipline PD: You already know why we came here today right? Yup I know! Today.. Present a special day for Choco and Mong E
since they couldn't go out for a walk So we gotta do 
1. Cooking, 2. Spa, 3. Massage, and 4. Lullaby Yea, I think it is good! and We all have to use an honorific for Choco&MongE I see, so I'm actually serving them I will be their butler to serve Choco&MongE today and.. I guess she is not feeling comfortable But anyway, Yes I will serve them with my best! Queen Choco, Please Sit! She is a super disciplined Please give me your hand the other one please! Good Job! Highfive! Good Job! PD: We just said that we have to use the honorific So what do I need to cook? Are these the materials? Carrot Tofu Tuna much simple than I thought 1. Putting Tuna in boiling water to let the salty goes 2. Put Tofu in boiling water for 2-3times to remove the salty taste 3. Put water little bit and mash Tofu 4. Put cooked Tuna on the top of Tofu and Mash 5. Boil it with Prepared Carrot and Broccoli That's it! Is this size of a dish working? Do we remove the oil first? since we have to parboil this First of all, We gotta wash our hands Real Clean Do I have to wash my hands for 3minutes? 3 minutes rule for brushing teeth I have to tie my hair when I cook Is this okay? Choco: Yup! I usually put the oil when  I cook Tuna Kimchi Strew since it becomes more delicious! Do I use the whole thing or half? half? I will cut Tofu and I have broccolis right here prepare the cutting board, prepare carrots This end part right? Carrot, Broccolis, Tofu, and Tuna We have to wash Tofu for three times We gotta boil the water right? then I will use some items I can use the Coffee Pot and I guess I do have a sens lol This pot is a present from Wi, Jihye Good Old days Water is boiling now! Nothing Special Mong E Why don't we play until water gets boiled? Mong E! Mong E: Hmm pretty loud but.. Mong E: Sorry I'm not really interested in Choco, Are you interested in? Choco: Nope Get it Mong E! Masterpiece called, Happy Family Hahahaha Mong E of the Cold City okay! your butler will come back soon! I will be back! You guys look so cute by this angle! Pause Oh it is really boiling! Time to drop Tuna! How long should I parboil? I don't have to wash it right? Cheat Code: Coffeepot The pot was too heavy to handle so I changed it Parboiling Tofu Do you want a bite later? I will get yours with Soy sauce, Yee Kon(PD)! Wait, Do you guys wanna eat Tofu? Choco: You are getting something to eat? You have to be careful always when you use a knife Choco: is it mine? Oh! I have some Kimchi! Tofu Kimchi! YEAAAHHHH YEAHHHHHH is this enough? (with the perfect Decoration) I will go ahead first! I love to eat with fried Kimchi when I eat 'Tofu Kimchi' I will try  some Tofu Kimchi! Ummm It's good! Here, Try some! help yourself! PD: Gosh, Kimchi looks so delicious! I washed it twice! ME? I just love to eat lol I mean cooking is fun! how should I cut this? I will mash Tofu You can just mash and stir it well mash it as the size of Choco and Mong E can eat I gotta cool this down for them Wow this is so meaningful, preparing this for them Did you wait for your mom, Mong E? Mong E: Nah.. my lunch Drop the prepared Tuna! Pet food is also kinda salty PD: wait.. Have you tried it..? My kids are Chiwawas with the small mouth Since they are small dogs, I gotta mash them well I just put carrots and looks different now looks more delicious I will try some It was not delicious for a human being Well, it is perfect for Choco&Mong E to eat Broccoli time! I have to film this! Yes, Go Pro Please! I cook too much for them... Do you want some? Completed Tuna Tofu Porridge by SOUL_G Iron Pot doesn't cool down as quickly as others I will cool down the food on Choco&Mong E Plates Served after cooling down enough Please help yourelf, Choco and Mong E Yours is here, Mong E Hope you Enjoy it! I think they love it! Eating so well! feel free to finish since I can refill it! I think I don't have to wash plates.. Look at this 1. Cooking  So, it is time for the spa right? Do you wanna go too? Mong E: Nah.. I'm good Choco, Let's go for the spa! Choco: is it spa time? Are you waiting for me Choco? Choco: Yea.. Maybe.. Player comes in Your snack is here! Sorry it's a lie You don't want it? (Choco: not gonna eat) Choco: I'm full! I guess they had a great food The Great Food: Soul_G's Tuna Tofu Porridge Take some Seoul Water taste ;) lol I have to do this fast since Choco will shake her body Dear.. My pants got wet Arghhhhhhhhhh She protected Choco while she fell down lolololololol if you are too hurt, you will keep laughing AHHHH SO HURT!!!! Haven't I fallen down too ugly? She actually fell real bad sounding like an earthquake Choco: Are you OK? lololol Trace of Fighting with the ground Yes, I rolled on the ground Let's dry Choco! Special Skill: Shake it Shake it Good Job! Mong E: Why are you laughing? I feel shame if I keep thinking that I said, "I SEE" when fell down lol I mean, You guys were laughing so hard, 
not asking if I'm okay or not lol All Staff: Sorry... It's almost done! Drying Choco! Choco is an angel! How come she is so gentle and mild Aight! Choco's Spa is done! I feel like I have done the spa.. Wait, Do I have to spa Mong E too? PD: Yes.. Soul_G looks so tired Mong E: I don't want to do spa Mong E: Nooo... I don't want to Come here~ RUN. Okay I will go I will go to catch you ;) Gotcha! It's warm, right? Mong E: It's not right Do you hate spa this much? Mong E: Yes.. For real Mong E: What are you looking at?! oh You have so clean foot.. Patience Level +1 What is wrong Mong E? Mong E: Spa.. Mom Almost done! Mong E: Let's do it together Mom Patience Level +1 2. Spa  Mong E: is this Place where I lay my precious body down? Please Wait my dear Mong E Alright, come here, Let's begin Massage Session (Artist Feet Protection Mosaic) I will relax you Mong E is already falling in Sleep How is Today Mong E? feeling good? Mong E: Super Good I will massage you, please feel free to sleep Mong E: Oh...I'm falling in sleep... (sing) Lullaby and good night, with roses bedight Gotta massage your head I know you have been tired as well
So I will massage your head too Mong E: Snoring Choco is also sleeping Mong E knows how to get massage Mong E: Yo, light off the cam It's all good all fine Fall in sleep 3. Massage and 4. Lullaby  Today was so meaningful *All prepared mention for Mass media I just loved how Choco and Mong E like what I did for them *We took it again since it wasn't fun enough Please watch the real one! Why don't we sit and talk freely? talk to me as a friend! It's all good *Aden and Soul_G are friends originally Gosh, it was a disaster.. Real tired lolol I was so happy when I was cooking and then it was getting so much tired and tired When I realized that I have to do spa for them, I'm like.. Shoot And you know my pants.. this one is the 4th one to wear When I was wearing this 4th pants, I'm so happy = This is not right oh btw, the handmade pet food was good like we removed all salty taste and Choco and Mong E enjoyed it really I felt kinda sorry for them cuz I haven't done this kind of service for them usually Thank you for today everyone Can I speak as off the record? "M.E.A.N.I.N.G.F.U.L" Just Kidding lol, 
I could feel a lot of things. Thank You so much 