Hello, everyone. Today, I’ll check
my-- PARK JIHYO’s-- MBTI results! I heard the ONCEs are curious to know
about my results. I’m curious
to check it out, too! Let’s go! (Find TWICE’s MBTI) “You have a hard time
introducing yourself.” No, I just...
(Disagree) “You often ignore or
forget about your surroundings.” Right. I can’t multitask.
(Agree) “Systems are more
important than conformity.” Hmm... Hard.
(Disagree) When I try
personality tests, I can’t focus.
As I keep reading, I can’t understand
what the words mean. It gets... Know what I mean? Boring. “Your house and
work environment are tidy.” “Work environment?” I don’t think it’s messy.
(Agree) “You don’t care about attention.” Doesn’t my job
require attention? (On the contrary,
she’s concentrating) (JIHYO, look at the camera... TwT) “You often think about
the reason humans exist.” The questions are getting... (Tell us more about JIHYO)
As I said, I can’t multitask. “For a group project, doing the right thing is
more important than cooperation.” (Conflicted) Aren’t both of them important? Neutral! (Chooses Neutral)
I shouldn’t, but... “Wh-Whether it’s true... True or not,
you believe all opinions
should be respected.” The truth is important, right?
(Agree) ”You often misplace things.” Yes! “You believe you are
very stable emotionally.” I guess. I’m not busy these days.
(Neutral) “When you speak in front of
a crowd, you can’t stay calm.” My job has many occasions
where I speak in front of a lot of people, so I think I’m a bit used to it.
(Disagree) “In a room full of people,
you stand near the wall, not the center.” Oh, yes!
(Agree) All of our members will agree. “You tend to procrastinate
until the last moment.” Oh... Yeah.
(Agree) Oh, the results? Already? (What is JIHYO’s MBTI?
Drumroll) It’s ISFP-T. “Personality:
Curious artist. Personality: more introverted. Energy: more practical. Instinct: more principled. Strategy: inquisitive. Ego: cautious. My ego is 89% cautious. Interesting! “Adventurer personalities aren’t necessarily in the sense
where they’re out painting happy little trees,
but they are true artists. (Reading out the reason
she can’t multitask...) It says I’m
spontaneous and unpredictable. “They are often unpredictable. Despite this, Adventurers are definitely Introverts, stepping out of the spotlight
to be by themselves to recharge, surprising their friends further.” I just remembered. When I was young,
I was extremely timid. I look talkative
and outgoing now, but I think I’m more timid. I bottle up my emotions a lot, Adventurers live to find
ways to push their passions. Compared to other types,
extreme sports and other risky behaviors
are more common.” Oh, I think it’s true. I love risky stuff. I love riding
scary rides at the theme park. What I really want to try in summer... You know. I want to learn surfing. Yeah! The biggest challenge
facing Adventurers is planning for the future.” Oh! It’s definitely true. “Finding constructive ideals
to base their goals on and working them out is
no small task. Adventurers don’t plan their futures
in terms of assets and retirement. Rather than stocks,
they invest on experience and activities to find their identity.” People like me aren’t realistic.
(Sheepish) Finding and developing new habits may not be easy,
but if they take time each day to understand their motivations, Adventurers will find their strengths to pursue whatever
they’ve come to love.” Don’t I sound
like a weirdo? Anyway, there you go. That’s what I am. I think it’s
true to some extent. What’s more, The list of famous Adventurers has Michael Jackson,
Britney Spears, and other celebrities! Can I be added here? Sorry. To be honest, I find this fun, but I’m not
eager to know. That’s just me. I mean... Seeing through me
with a few questions isn’t that pleasant. Am I being strange? I hate it. And it’s not 100% accurate. Anyway, that’s my opinion. It’s true to some extent, though. But I’m not... the curious artist type. The rest of it is true. It’s just... Amazing. How do they know
with these question? Thank you,
whoever made this. So, today, you found out my MBTI. I don’t know what results
you ONCEs received, but I want to know! Next up, MINA’s MBTI. Go-go! 