Oh, I've had a haircut. I've got nothing to tuck behind anymore for dramatic effect Mmm pondering my email. Making sure I've not been copyrighted for anything in particular. Oh, my phone's ringing Hey, how can I help you? I've been cancelled How could I possibly cancel seeing as this video is sponsored? Hi Hello, skinny legends and thicc myths welcome back to my channel if you are new here, my name is Tom Harlock I do not have an intro, but I am live so do not say fuck or bugger If you are new to my channel, you may not know that I have a mild obsession with thinking that I am funny so for today's video I thought it... ...for today's video I thought it would be a great idea to make some more vines like I did back in the day and like I did 5 videos ago - you guys seem to love it when I did it true crime style And when I asked you if you wanted me to do it for youtubers, you guys were like, "yeah definitely" So now I'm back here doing it And I wanted to address another thing quickly before I get into this video and lose all my friends because I'm about to slag them Off in various ways. I wanted to address the fact that everyone is currently getting cancelled online and I wanted to say If you want to cancel me, that's absolutely fine But you never will be able to. Do really think you'll be able to cancel me? You'd have to force quit, control, alt, delete. You'd never have the power. I am the administrator in my own life You have nothing on me. And the only way I'm going out is by my own accord So now I've said that back to th- aaah, I've had a haircut, do you like it? If you enjoy this video at any time make sure to leave me a like, subscribe for more I can't believe I'm probably gonna hit 700,000 by the end of the year, I'm gonna nut! The way this is gonna work, is I'm gonna show you a bunch of vines that I made, if you enjoyed any of Them at any time. Let me know down below in the comments I'm also speaking pretty fast. Jojo Siwa,  come and get your bow because I'm snatching it. and I really hope I still have friends at the end of this. Hi! One ticket for the Chris Ingham meet-and-greet, please. Have you got any ID? I'm 25 years old. Unfortunately, you have to be 16 or under, or this short to ride It's not what anyone here at Disney wants Felix, but we're gonna have to let you go. Oh, yeah Well, welcome back to mein Disney Channel. PewDiePie speaking Mrs Mongonogonoose? Yes, it's Tom the babysitter. I just want to let you know that Tana. Mrs Mongonogonoose: WITH A HARD R Oh, I'm sorry. TanER is sleeping great. She actually said her first word earlier. Oh, I know crazy Mrs Mongonogonoose: Oh, my God, I'm so proud! I think she's gonna do it again. Listen! Tana: YOU FUCKIN NIG-   If I'm honest, I don't know why you think I have so many issues. Now hold on. It's my turn for karaoke Ooh na na, where's my dad? Prime Minister the new foreign correspondent has arrived. Oh, yes, Miss Lele Pons Me casa es su casa Lele: I am a Latina Says here, you're new to politics, correct? Lele: I used to be a physical comedian. I would love to see Zoe, people keep being mean about me being a Tory Zoella: Alfie, babes, don't worry about it. Tell them all to eat shit. You think I should eat Nala's poopoos? 9-1-1. What's your emergency? Caller: Somebody at our prom has been killed. Please help! Calm down. Calm down. I'll send Shane Dawson over immediately to make a series. Would you like a 3-part or a 5? Doctor: Sir, I would like you to pay attention to the shadowing Manny: I love shadows. Doctor: But we can't operate on your brain Manny: So pigmented! Thank you so much again to Epic Games to sponsoring this video thank you. I love you. I appreciate it so much! Six hundred fifty thousand, as well, is insane I cannot get over that. If you want to join me on the road to 700K, make sure to subscribe down below Thank you so much for watching this video. I hope you guys enjoyed it and I'll see you next time. and I love you and goodbye. Hi! One ticket for the Chris Ingham meet-and-greet, please! Have you got any ID? I'm 25 years old Unfortunately, you have to be 16 and under, or this short to ride It's not what anyone here at Disney wants Felix, but we're gonna have to let you go. Oh, yah? Well, welcome back to mein Disney Channel. PewDiePie speaking. Mrs Mongonogonoose? Yes, it's Tom the babysitter. I just want to let you know that Tana. Mrs Mongonogonoose: WITH A HARD R Oh, I'm sorry. TanER is sleeping great. She actually said her first word earlier. Oh, I know crazy Mrs Mongonogonoose: Oh, my God, I'm so proud! I think she's gonna do it again. Listen Tana: YOU FUCKIN NIG- If I'm honest, I don't know why you think I have so many issues. Now, hold on, it's my turn for karaoke Ooh na na, where's my dad? Prime Minister the new foreign correspondent has arrived. Oh, yes, Miss Lele Pons Me casa es su casa Lele: I am a Latina It say here, you're new to politics, correct? Lele: I used to be a physical comedian. I would love to see Zoe, people keep being mean about me being a Tory Zoella: Alfie, babes, don't worry about it. Tell them all to eat shit. You think I should eat Nala's poopoos? Who's 9 1 1 what's your emergency? Calm down. Calm down. I'll send Shane Dawson over immediately to make a series. Would you like a 3-part or a 5? Doctor: Sir, I would like you to pay attention to the shadowing. Manny: I love shadows Doctor: But we can't operate on your brain. Manny: So pigmented! Doctor: You should probably make arrangements and say your goodbyes. 