Hi flover~!! We are here to film flaylist This is my 3rd flaylist Today!!! It'll be different from what came before! I'll sing pop ballad I practice a lot for our dear flovers Checking carefully again before filming! (Nervous) Started filming for test!! (How was it?!) Chaeyoung, Jiwon, and Hayoung yesterday
said this yesterday! I didn't even tell them
about this but they said, "Jiwon~ Can I come see you
at the recording session? I’ll come!" They said that But no one woke up hahaha They didn't come! What's happening? Hayoung taught me all the gestures And Chaeyoung said herself
that she'll come for sure! She said herself that
she'll definitely come But they were sleeping,
I saw them before I felt bad about waking them up so I came by myself They will probably come later
when they wake up Won't they? They will come when
I'm done! After I'm done! The sound of something coming in! Could it be?????? I keep expecting them I keep thinking it's them
whenever someone comes in You can check the full ver.
on the fromis_9 official YouTube channel The smooth filming process
made Jiwon happy Finally! You have finally arrived! Wow! Good job! I want to see it again Ah~ Let's not haha I pressed the rewind button It'd be funny if I press the delete button haha Can we see it once again now?! Ah~ She came late because of makeup!!
(Understandable) I wanted to look pretty for our flover I didn't come here to see you I came to see flover haha Advice from the gesture pro When you sing in falsetto,
you can do this-! You can put your hand together like this But even if I don't tell her anything she concentrated so well on this song She was practicing with her pajamas on and was singing like this She saw me practicing yesterday haha She made me teary - She was so good
- I did? I told you You went like this It felt like I was singing I was getting getting… getting… very emotional Okay, okay, haha, stop it haha Okay haha Self-hypnosis,
having sad thoughts… You can check the full ver.
on the fromis_9 official YouTube channel Wow… Good job… I almost cried I was like this (Focused…) I was frowning even more
than you did as I was watching Jiwon is a pro, she's a pro fromis_9's pro Pro at compliments Let me try it now! Jiwon is so cool~ I'm a flover~ I'm Jiwon's flover I'm Jiwon's flover~ I'm Jiwon's flover~ I'm Jiwon's flover~ I'm Jiwon's flover~ I'm Jiwon's flover who likes Ji~won! Impromptu Jiwon's flower song Thank you for coming, Hayoung Our Chaeyoung ended up… Chaeyoung~ I thought you were coming You said you were coming yourself What I thought would happen
ended up happening Hayoung is the best as always I'm Jiwon's flover~ I'm Jiwon's flover~! Jiwon's, Jiwon's, Jiwon's~ I'm Jiwon's flover! Stay excited Megan is cool~! Few days ago, wait,
it's been a while now I watched A Star is Born(2018) I felt so touched while watching that movie If you haven’t watched it,
please watch it! Okay? Oh right! You understand the song better
after you watch the movie So please watch the movie first
and then watch this Or you can put the movie on mute
and listen to Jiwon's singing What if my song makes it bad? Hahaha Anyway, flover, thank you so much We'll release more flaylists
in the days to come Pleas stay tuned for other flaylsits as well 