"More plainly should we have perceived in one people and their hero all mankind and its heroes. This at any rate I have always myself felt
in reading Beowulf." - J.R.R. Tolkien One of the biggest inspirations for Tolkien’s
The Lord of the Rings, was the epic poem Beowulf, which was written by an Anglo-Saxon poet more
than a 1000 years earlier, and which is generally regarded as the oldest work of literature in the English language. The story is divided into three parts, 
or rather; three battles, in which Beowulf faces a variety of
 otherworldly enemies. We have heard of the glory of the kings of
the Danes in days gone by. How those princes performed brave deeds. We begin with the story of the Danish king Hrothgar, and the building of the great banquet hall Heorot. Pained by the sounds of the daily feasts 
taking place there, a troll-like monster called Grendel attacks the hall and, with its overwhelming strength, slays many of Hrothgar’s warriors. Unable to defeat Grendel, 
the king closes the great hall, and his people retreat into a hopeless darkness. From Geatland, the young warrior Beowulf 
comes to Hrothgar’s aid, and faces Grendel without any weapons or armor, believing this to be the honorable way as Grendel doesn’t have any weapons or armor either. A violent battle ensues, and Beowulf defeats
Grendel by tearing off its arm, after which the monster flees, 
and succumbs to his wound. One night later however, it turns out Grendel
has a mother, and she’s yearning for vengeance. She too attacks Heorot, kills one of Hrothgar’s
best warriors, and then escapes back to her lair. Beowulf, together with Hrothgar and his men,
track her to a lake, where Beowulf promptly jumps in to face 
this second monster. While this battle is notably harder than the
first one, Beowulf again emerges victorious. He is bestowed with many gifts, and journeys
back to his homeland, where he eventually becomes king of the Geats. The story then jumps ahead fifty years. Beowulf is now an old king who is about to
face his final challenge. A slave has stolen a golden cup from a dragon’s
lair, subsequently awakening this ancient evil. The enraged dragon erupts from his cave, and
burns everything in sight. Beowulf is adamant about facing the dragon alone, but finds his strength is no match for that of the dragon. His men flee in desperation, all except one. A young warrior named Wiglaf comes to his king’s aid, and together they manage to slay the dragon. Beowulf however, is mortally wounded, 
and dies soon after. The story ends with our hero being burned
on a great pyre, and mourned by his people, who proclaim that of all the kings of men
he was the most generous, and gracious, to his people most tender 
and for praise most eager. With its simple structure and lack of progression
between the three episodes, it is not surprising that filmmakers have struggled to adapt Beowulf to the big screen, and that when they did, they made 
significant alterations to the story. A few films borrowed elements from the 
science-fiction genre, which not only serves to give the story a unique twist, but also adds justification for 
the presence of a monster, which in Outlander for example becomes an alien who crashed on Earth in the Viking era. In contrast, The 13th Warrior attempts to
tell a more grounded and naturalistic story that explores a potential truth behind the legend. In this version that is only loosely based
on the original poem, the Beowulf character and his warriors come to the aid of a village plagued by monsters, referred to here not as Grendel, but Wendel. It is however quickly revealed that 
the monsters are just men, and all allusions to the mystical 
are merely deceptions. You saw the fire worm?
- It's cavalry I'd rather prefer a dragon.
- Hundreds, with torches. A similar effort can be found in Beowulf & Grendel. While Grendel is not human in this adaptation, he is given a tragic backstory through a prologue in which Hrothgar and his men kill Grendel’s father. By making his plight more sympathetic, Grendel becomes not so much a monster, 
but more of a misunderstood other. I am Beowulf. And I'm here to kill your monster. The 2007 adaptation of Beowulf does include
actual monsters, and is the only adaptation to include the third act of the story in which Beowulf battles a dragon. But this version too significantly changes the poem as it turns Grendel’s mother into a temptress, Beowulf into a flawed hero who
falls for her seduction, and the dragon into their corrupted lovechild, functioning here as a reflection of Beowulf’s failure. Coming out in the wake of 300, the Beowulf in this version is also largely defined by hyper-masculinity and loud boastfulness. This is Sparta! I am Beowulf! It’s a noteworthy change of character 
for our main hero, one that, more than anything, highlights his grandiosity, and more generally; the less honorable side 
to strength and confidence. Underneath your glamour, you're as much a monster as my son Grendel. This struggle to capture the original poem
on film becomes especially clear when compared to the cinematic adaptations
 of Greek mythology, and of heroes such as Achilles and Hercules, and Theseus and Perseus, which have generally
been much more popular, and successful. The literary scholar W.P. Ker wrote that, while having a diverse story and a beautifully dignified style, The fault of Beowulf is that there is nothing
much in the story. The hero is occupied in killing monsters,
like Hercules or Theseus. But there are other things in the lives of
Hercules and Theseus besides the killing of the Hydra or of Procrustes, Beowulf has nothing else to do. In his essay, Beowulf: The Monsters and the Critics, J.R.R. Tolkien also mentions how some critics have
observed several odd historical references and underdeveloped plot elements and character
backgrounds in the poem, and writes that, because of this; It has been said of Beowulf itself that its weakness lies in placing the unimportant things at the center and the important on the outer edges. Tolkien however, disagrees with this criticism. I think it profoundly untrue of the poem,
– He wrote in response – but strikingly true of the literature about it. So what is it about Beowulf that Tolkien believes
most critics are missing? What is the real essence at the heart 
of this poem? And to what extent can we find it 
in its cinematic adaptions, which are perhaps the best reflections of how we interpret this old story today? Let’s begin with the most obvious, the most
striking part of Beowulf; the monsters. To really understand the function of Beowulf’s enemies, we must understand the time in which the story exists, which was a transitional period between 
the old age of Norse paganism and the new age of Christianity. Shall we also pray to the new Roman god, Christ Jesus? Literary scholar R.W. Chambers explains the
effect this had on the story by pointing out that while the heroes in Greek mythology also
faced formidable and wicked monsters, they weren’t necessarily struggling with the
powers of darkness. Beowulf, on the other hand, faces enemies
that are identified with the foes of God. Grendel for example is referred to as 
a descendant from Cain, who, in Genesis, was the first man to murder another, and is often seen as the originator of evil and violence. And so Beowulf, 
- Chambers writes - for all that he moves in the world of the primitive Heroic Age of the Germans, nevertheless is almost a Christian knight. But, as Tolkien remarks, 
when Beowulf was written, this transition to a Christian worldview 
was not yet complete, and can therefore not solely be viewed 
in those terms. He explains how the poem makes no real mention
of Heaven or the afterlife, and is still primarily concerned with man of earth, which correlates more closely to Norse paganism. In doing so; [Beowulf] rehandles in a new perspective 
an ancient theme: that man, each man and all
men, and all their works shall die. In Norse mythology, the gods exist within time, and, like men, are fated to eventually be destroyed. On that note, W.P. Ker adds; [The Northern Gods] are on the right side, 
though it is not the side that wins. The winning side is Chaos and Unreason. Beowulf’s monsters, then, represent the fundamental struggle against the forces of darkness, and of nature. Beginning, as Tolkien puts it, with the triumph
over the nearly human, and ending with the defeat by the older 
and more elemental. The dragon at the end is thus essential not only as a personification of malice, greed, and destruction, which Tolkien called the evil side of heroic life, but also of the undiscriminating cruelty of time that devours all; the evil side of all life. This sense of despair is perhaps the most
defining aspect of the old poem, recounting, almost as an elegy, 
a lost age of heroes and kings, and invoking an intense emotion of regret knowing that all their small victories were cancelled by their inevitable annihilation. And yet, Beowulf also shows us that this despair
did not go unchallenged, but was answered by what Tolkien considers the great contribution of early Northern literature; the creed of unyielding will. It is the strength of the northern mythological
imagination that it faced this problem, put the monsters in the center, 
gave them Victory but no honor, and found a potent but terrible solution 
in naked will and courage. It reveals the real purpose of our main hero
Beowulf, and Norse heroism in general. Warriors like Beowulf did not hope for eternal
victory, or lasting peace. Instead, they found their main virtue in courage, in standing fearless against the fate that awaits all; a momentary rebellion against
the greatest of all foes. That is what Beowulf is about. The particular is on the outer edge, 
the essential in the center. It explains for example why Beowulf chose
to face Grendel naked, which in the poem most likely meant 
without weapons and armors, but which the 2007 adaptation assumed literally. He was less concerned with the outcome of the battle, 
and much more so with the how of it; because that’s where he could truly
exercise his virtue. That’s where he could find real honor. We shall fight as equals, 
then fate shall decide. Knowing the pessimistic view on human destiny
in Norse mythology, and the subsequent essential place of courage, we can also understand why it is so important that Beowulf’s monsters are actual monsters. As mentioned before, in Beowulf & Grendel,
the monster Grendel is not really a monster, but rather a tragic figure who has been wronged
by humans. Because of this, the story changes from a
mythological one, to a more sociological one. And, as authors Nickolas Haydock and E.L. Risden point out in their book Beowulf on Film, Beowulf as a hero appears almost unnecessary here. He tries to battle with Grendel, but never
actually gets to fight him. Why won't he fight me?
- Why should he? Grendel is eventually caught in chains, 
but cuts his own arm off to escape, thereby causing his own death. This narrative departure leaves Beowulf’s
heroic character as an afterthought, and the primary message communicated through him is
not really about courage, but more about the capacity to understand 
and value the Other. All this is not to say that the film doesn’t
work in its own right, but the specifically modern lens does diverge from the poem to such an extent that its original essence is no longer present. The same goes for Beowulf’s 2007 adaptation. The hero we meet in this version does embody
the boldness of Norse heroism, but this trait mostly functions as a cautionary tale; as a potential gateway to sinful 
and destructive behavior. Beowulf’s confidence is not only painted
as boastful, but also as suspicious, as it is strongly implied that Beowulf is liar. And you killed, what was it, 20?
- Nine. Last time it were three. This, of course, foreshadows his later failure
to kill Grendel’s mother, a lie that sets into motion the events of the third act. Here we find an old and weary king, lamenting
the lost age of heroes. The time of heroes is dead, Wiglaf. The Christ God has killed it, leaving humankind with nothing but weeping martyrs, fear, and shame. But the issue here is that because Beowulf
was never really shown as truly virtuous, it seems to imply that this lost age of heroes
never existed to begin with; and was merely a mask covering 
the shortcomings of men. Keep a memory of me, not as a king or hero,
but as man, fallible and flawed. This notion is further emphasized at the end. In the poem, the story ends with a eulogy for Beowulf, and the implicit promise that his virtue will be carried on by the new king Wiglaf, who courageously fought alongside Beowulf 
against the dragon. The film too ends with Wiglaf as the new king, but concludes on a different note as we once again see Grendel’s mother arise out of the sea, suggesting that the new king too might be 
seduced into sin, and that Beowulf’s legacy is not one 
of strength and virtue, but one of temptation and weakness. Although it is an admirable attempt to turn
an old poem into a more complex exploration of human nature, and examine more critically
the Norse beliefs and virtues, I think it does miss something essential, not just in
relation to the poem’s content, but also in its purpose and function. Tolkien likens Beowulf to a myth, the significance of which, he argues, cannot be easily pinned down by analytical reason, but is rather defined by the emotional movement 
it invokes. It is something that is alive at once and
in all its parts, and dies before it can be dissected. Something that can only be captured by being felt, 
by being connected to it. And this is exactly what Beowulf’s poet
did, as Tolkien writes, It is a poem by a learned man writing of old times, who looking back on the heroism and sorrow feels in them something permanent and something symbolical. It makes me wonder, aside from Tolkien’s own sanctification of the Norse virtues in The Lord of the Rings, which I’ve already discussed in other videos, is there no lasting legacy of Beowulf 
in today’s cinema? Has the permanent and symbolical the poet felt in Beowulf’s heroism and sorrow been lost in the ages? Looking at the poem’s adaptations, it appears so. But perhaps we’re looking in the wrong place. While researching Beowulf, I couldn’t help but think of the rise of the superhero genre in recent years. Like Beowulf, these films generally aren’t
considered works of high culture, and yet their affective power is undeniable. They too tend to place the particular on the outer edge, to focus on the essential that is at the center, that being, in different proportions, the struggle of heroes against a hostile world, and their inevitable downfall
against the greater forces of nature. On their most fundamental level, the superheroes
of today very much resemble the heroes of old, which Tolkien defined as; men caught in the chains of circumstance 
or of their own character, torn between duties equally sacred, dying with their backs to the wall. This is not to say the two stories, separated by so many centuries, should be equated as one. But like an echo brought over the hills, it does feel like we’re experiencing 
a new mythos of classic heroism; a mythos of courage in the face 
of overwhelming odds, of sacrifice for the sake of others, and of the ultimate
fate that awaits even the best and strongest. And I... am... Iron Man. In defense of Beowulf’s episodic structure, Tolkien wrote that the poem was not meant to advance, but is essentially a balance, an opposition of ends and beginnings. And this too we see in the superhero genre,
both within the text, as well as on a meta level as the same stories are reincarnated again, and again. It’s hard to say why stories such as these
still resonate so strongly today, maybe there is something permanent 
to be found in them after all. Tolkien believed that, in the simplest terms,
heroic stories such as Beowulf, and perhaps also, of the superheroes of today, capture the important moments of any great life, 
rising and setting, an elaboration of the ancient and intensely moving contrast between youth and age. between first achievement 
and final death. Graced by the promise of a new generation. Carrying on the legacy of heroes past, and paving the way for new heroes to come. Beowulf is one of my favorite poems, and I
love watching films that, consciously or unconsciously, reflect parts of its story. Take for example how the first three Alien
films have a similar structure with Ripley defeating a monster, 
defeating the monster’s mother, and eventually facing the dragon that kills her. 