- So, the keen-eyed among you have noticed that the last few videos on
my channel have been filmed in a brand new space, and that is because in
the last couple of months I have been building a brand
new workspace and studio, and in this video, I'm
gonna give you a quick tour of that workspace. Let's get started. (elegant music) Okay, so, the biggest
change about the space is actually the size of it. I am finally out of my bedroom. I've got a proper, I think
it's 400 square foot space to work with now, which is so much better
for the versatility, and we've got kind of four
areas I'm gonna show you here. We've got the desk area. There's a podcasting slash film set area that's really versatile and can actually have multiple
different backgrounds. We have a music area, because I've been doing
a lot more music lately and then finally we have our storage area where we keep lots of C-stands and lights and lenses, and all kinds of stuff like that, but let's get started with the desk since that's probably the thing most of you are interested in. So, the desk itself is a
Jarvis Bamboo Standing Desk which means it has this
little controller over here which lets me raise the desk or lower the desk, or I can actually program
in different presets so I could do a standing preset or a sitting preset. So we did a dual monitor
video a little while ago and these dual 4K monitors
were featured in that video. I won't talk too much about them. The other kind of big thing on
this desk are these monitors. These are Yamaha HS7s I believe and I now have them on the speaker stands which put the Tweeters
at roughly ear height. So, even though this space
isn't perfectly treated for audio production, the monitors are at least
at the correct height for me to mix music, which I've been trying to
learn how to do recently. Also on the desk we have a couple of music production things. There is a Native Instruments Maschine which they use as a drum pad, and a S61 Mitty Controller which works really well
for kind of composing songs and then we have a Corsair
K95 Gaming Keyboard, a Logitech G507 Wireless, which I have been wanting
them to make for years. They finally answered my prayers. And a few other knick-knacks. We've got a wireless phone charger which my editor, Tony, gave to me. A few of these. These are SanDisk. I think they're SSDs, but in an external enclosure form. So, these are actually incredibly fast and I can edit off of these just as fast as I would off of an internal drive which means if I have to travel, then I can just take one of these with me, and even if I don't have
enough space on my laptop, I can just put files on
this and edit like normal which is pretty awesome. So, we also have, we
have a Stream Deck here. So this is the El Gato Stream Deck. Now a lot of Twitch streamers and people who do game streaming, they use this for like tweeting
while they're in the game so they don't have to Alt Tab out of it. I do something different. I actually use auto hotkey to bind each of these buttons to a different folder that I have to open really often on my computer. So, this button is for the current video's main footage folder. This one down here is for
my screenshots folder, and when I hit it, I can automatically bring
up a window on my screen. So with all that said, let's talk about why the desk is so messy, because it's definitely not like a minimalist desk, and part of the reason for that is I've been working on a project recently where I had to use
LogicPro to mix some audio, but I wanted to use all of this hardware. So, I've got a dock over here which charges my Macbook and allows me to plug in all kinds of stuff into it, and then right here is
what's called a KVM Switch. This, if I hit this button, will allow me to switch the keyboard, the mouse, and the speakers, the audio interface, and the monitors over to my Macbook which I just set in this
dock here and plug in and I'm good to go. I can use my Macbook just like a desktop. All right, so underneath the KVM we have the audio interface. This is a Scarlett 18i8 from Focusrite and it's got I think
like 18 different inputs, but I use the main four on the front. So, a couple of these are podcast mics which I'll show you a little bit later and the other two are well, number one I have
my SM7B mic right here which I'll use for voiceovers or for vocal practice sometimes, since I started singing
lessons about a year ago and there's another mic over there which is for the same purpose but is a condenser mic. Also going into the interface are of course the HS7s and then these Sennheiser HD 600s which are my absolute favorite headphones and I do most of the mixing
for the audio in my videos on these headphones. Last but not least, we have the computer on the floor. It's a good editing computer. It's got a Core i7 in there. GTX1080, and it let's me get most of my editing done, and then the chair is an Office Master OM5 which I actually learned about from a Linus Tech Tips video. I like this chair, but I think if I were to go back in time I wouldn't buy it, because, at least in my opinion, I think fancy office chairs
are a little bit over rated, and I think it's more
important to just get up, take breaks, make sure you're exercising, make sure you're staying flexible, and honestly, I've worked
in wooden kitchen chairs, coffee shop chairs. They're all kind of the same. So, I don't know. Some people are probably
gonna hate me for that opinion but I don't think fancy office chairs are all that necessary. Anyway, let's move over
to the video set area which is also used for our podcast. So, we have this table here, which is just from IKEA. There are a couple of
Audio-Technica AT2035 Condenser Microphones attached to it. These are what we use for
the collegeinfogeek podcast but this table actually pulls triple duty. We use it for the podcast. We use it for videos on my channel. You've probably seen the
digital file organization video, or maybe the recent one that
Tony and I did on the iPad and its note-taking abilities. And then we also use this as kind of the main B roll set. We'll sometimes set up C-stands with cameras going overhead, so we can film stuff top down, or we'll use it for glam footage, and we also have these shelves from IKEA with plenty of fun little props and of course, the obligatory
llama on it as well. And then on this side of the space is all the music stuff. I've been into music for many, many years but in 2019, my head writer, Ransom, he introduced me to an artist named Tash Sultana and if you haven't heard of them you really need to go listen to them, but they do what's called live looping where they use a looper
pedal to create loops with multiple instruments, and that I kind of went crazy
when I learned about that. So, I've got this looper pedal over here. It's a Boss RC 300 which allows me to do multiple loops at the same time. There is a Line 6 Helix for guitar tones and base tones. We have a Korg minilogue xd synthesizer which is polyphonic so it can do chords, it can do arpeggiators, all kinds of fun stuff. A Roland SPD-SX drum sampler so I can do drums. A mixer for all of it and then the guitars and the pianos. This is a Kawai, I think, CA78. It's a fantastic digital piano. So all this runs into the mixer that runs into this interface and I'm able to plug my
laptop into this if I want to so I can record, or I can plug into this PA over here if I want to just output the sound and just kind of jam out. So, I've been doing that
to create some compositions like the one that I just recently put up on Spotify called, "Icicle Swords." which sounds a bit like this. (electric guitar playing) And, of course, I'll have that linked in the description down below, but we're gonna move
on to the storage area. So, this is one of the
reasons I'm really happy to be out of the bedroom. I have more storage for
the gear that we need to make better quality videos. So, let's kind of start
back in the corner here. I've collected a lot of
tripods over the years, but my absolute favorite
one is this Sachtler one. MKBHD talked about this
in his studio tour video and this thing is amazing because you can just
adjust the height of it with three little levers at the top and that has enabled us to just take a lot more B-Roll a lot quicker and one of the biggest things that I try to keep in mind
when building the studio and whenever I buy a piece of gear is is it going to reduce the
amount of friction involved in creating something. If I can make that friction go away, if I can make the process faster, that means I can make
better things more quickly. One other thing that I do want to note about most of the tripods not all of them because we do have a bigger
camera we're working with now for some of the shots. But, for the camera that Tony's holding on the gimbal right now we usually have these GorillaPod heads on, we have Lorex detachment
on every camera we use. I actually have an old ADD right here. So, there's the attachment right there and then I try to keep a GorillaPod head on nearly every tripod or tripod attachment that we use. That way, instead of having
to screw into a tripod plate which, again, takes time adds friction. We can just click it in instantly and we're good to go. So, I have that on here I have that on the overhead setup which we're gonna talk about in a little bit. I have one of this C-stand here and that just makes creating
things really quick. I wanna give a shout out to Bob Clagett at I Like to Make Stuff
for giving me that tip. And speaking of C-stands we do have, I think,
two C-stands right now these things have been a godsend. I used to use the cheap
light stands off of Amazon and, well, they work for cheap lights but when we're suspending
cameras over stuff, when we're putting heavy lights on things the all-steel C-stands
really, really help. And for anybody who does
their own video production you're gonna want sandbags because if you throw
a sandbag on a C-stand this thing is not gonna tip over even if you have a good amount
of weight on the C-stand. Anybody who works in film
production will tell you these things are worth
their weight in gold even though they're just
their weight in sand. Speaking of lighting, I'm gonna come back to this but I do want to quickly go over here and show you one other thing
that's kind of above my desk. So, one thing that I've tried to do with my video production is use better lighting techniques. One of those techniques
is to use what's called, a hair light. So, we have a light that's
kind of above my desk so whenever I'm sitting and doing a regular video I kind of have some nice lighting on the back of me. But, this thing is easily able to, and if you wanna step
back you can show this, swing over and now we can light B-roll that's going top-down on the table really, really easily. So again, it's all about versatility. So now, let's go over to the shelves here. These are theme of the video, IKEA shelves but they work really well. Here we've just collected
a lot of the film gear that we need quick access to. So, all of our lenses and we've collected quite a few lenses. We're now using a Canon C200. Most of the A-roll that we shoot which is pretty great the quality on it is amazing. We have some audio gear up here. These are the camcorders
that we actually used to use for the podcast, but now that we have the C200 which can film for more
than thirty minutes we don't really need
these for much anymore, so maybe I should sell them. Another thing, another one of these
little Joby GorillaPods on a tripod attachment. So any tripod that doesn't have a GorillaPod head already on it, we can just throw this attachment on there and we're good to go. Same with our little sliders. So, if we want cool slider shots I've got a GorillaPod attachment on there. We're good to go with that. And then over here, we have a pegboard also from IKEA but I do wanna give a
shout out to Matt D'Avella for giving me the idea for this guy. This is where we keep the gimbal, usually if we're not using it, which we are right now. We keep SwitchPod which my friends Pat and
Caleb actually invented and I Kickstarted. Actually love this thing. And I actually don't know how this little Ooga Ooga got here. I think you did that, didn't you? (laughs) Actually, I like it. It's dope. We have these little drawers, too. So, we've got some little
attachment screws, bolts stuff like that can go in here. And right beneath it we have a drawer unit which also doubles as
the charging station. So, for batteries. I want to get a label maker so I can have a dead and a live thing. Right now, I've just been
putting dead ones up here and fully charged ones down here. So, I'll just throw them in there when I'm not using them. They'll charge up. And then this one is
batteries for the C200. I've got a IOS cord for iPads and stuff like that. And then within these drawers we have a kind of rough organizational method that makes sense to me. So, tools and stuff go in here. This drawer is gonna be
for just random film things like filters. This is a random cord drawer so HDMI cables, DisplayPort cables, and then this is the audio drawer which is mainly just XLR
cables for microphones and this is the microphone
that we actually shoot most of our videos on. Down here, we've got
extra extension cords, extra plug strips, and finally just some random stuff that goes to the C200. Try to keep that grouped. That brings us to the
last part of the studio that I'll show you which is the overhead setup So, sometimes we will setup for overhead with a C-stand in the B-roll area, but this is just for quick and dirty overhead shots. I can go in here instantly turn these lights on and then if I have a book
that I'm gonna show off, I can slide the camera into here again, we have a Joby
GorillaPod head on this arm which I believe is from Manfrotto. And we can just do really,
really quick overhead shots. And then I had this monitor laying around so I thought, well I can flip the
screen out on the camera and see what I'm doing. But, if I wanna have a
better view of what I'm doing I can actually plug this little HDMI, mini HDMI cord, into the camera and then see what I'm
doing on the monitor. And the monitor is on an arm so it can easily be adjusted for position. And if you can come in close here, the one thing I do want to mention, I have these little sticky table holders. These are super cheap and you can get em at
Home Depot, actually. So, if I don't want this
cable just falling back here, I can just easily shove it in
there when I'm not using it. And these actually work really well for phone chargers, any kind of cable that
you want on your desk but that you want out of the way. It's a really nice, little handy thing. and thank you for watching as well. Hopefully, you got something useful out of episode and I will see you in the next video. You can get subscribed right there if you haven't done so already, or click right over here, which is probably covering my face, to get one more video on this channel. 