(10-year-old girl group's dignity!) (Will love the way I am, will live as I see) (Apink's unique charm that has deepened!) (Apink came to Shindonggayo!) K-pop stars' attractive time that fans want to see The behind of Inkigayo, Shindonggayo! Hello, I ’m Shindong. Nice to meet you. Let me introduce the guests who came to Shindonggayo today At the same time as the comeback, they swept the music chart!
10-year-old Girl Group! This is Apink, who returned with the title song Dumhdurum! Nice to meet you Hello, this is Apink Please introduce yourselves one by one ~ Hello, this is Apink Ha Young
(Panda's Ophrodite Hayoung) It's so good to broadcast again with Shin Dong nice to meet you Hello, this is Apink Eunji
(Actress Jung, King of Dance, God of Dance) Today is the 9th anniversary! Really? So I'm very happy to come out on a meaningful day I will have fun today!
(Nice talker, let's make a meaningful time!) Hello, this is Apink Chorong. Nice to meet you.
(Bright Rongvely Chorong) Hello it's Naeun! Nice to see you
(Son Center Sonna Goddess Naeun) Hello, this is Apink Bomi. Nice to meet you.
(Born to be an idol Bomi) Hello, this is Apink Namjoo
(Lovely vitamin Namjoo) Nice to meet you
The first corner is, you can only do this in Shindonggayo To hear all the very small stories during the preparation for this comeback TMI News ~ (Shouldn't we follow it?) Don't keep trying to repeat everything (Reaction that comes out like a vending machine) Hello everyone, Shindong News
Oh, it's not Shindong News Ah, I'm confused because of you ~
(Suffering from the beginning) I’m the anchor Shin Dong of TMI News Let’s meet the first news. Apink Oh it's Unanswered Questions Indeed, what It's mixed By the way By the way So! The first news is..
uh! this! Huh It is said that there is a member who has an appetite that doesn't get along with a 'girl group'. Is it a tripe? Eunji Yes She looks for a sweet jelly of red beans when she's tired I love it Oh yeah? Do you like a sweet jelly of red beans? I really like red beans You love red beans ~ I love red beans, and my gym teacher said that when it's okay to eat when you're out of an energy Oh yeah? Are there any other good ones?
(Interested in diet) Tofu or the red bean jelly Why, Bomi, why? No, you look so tired because of diet,
(Shindong's tired of diet) Your cheeks are shaking We're talking about the red bean jelly and it made me so eager to eat Actually I don't like the jelly But you know when you're on a diet
It's just all good Yeah yeah it's all delicious Are you on a diet a lot? It's so hard Oh yeah?
Is there a diet that has the best effect recently?? I want to try JUVIS so much (JU★★ model) Ah, I really searched for JUVIS Is there a diet that you can do without a big effort? To be honest, I'll tell you this in real There is no diet without a big effort Yes You have to put an effort!
I think this is the diet that I had lost the most weights compared to my efforts Because it manages all the machine management and exercise and eating It checks even the time I sleep and the amount of water I drink Isn't it stressful? Yes, I'm very stressed It's not difficult,  let’s stop talking about diet. Now the second news There is a member who is addicted to OO NamJoo! uh!! Why are you all surprised ?! It says that she is doing this a lot during this album. sigh Do you sigh a lot? Choreography is so difficult It is said that she takes her selfie a lot during this comeback It's a really TMI There are a lot of concept changes this time so I try to take more pictures on each stage There are some members who especially take a lot of selfies Hayoung! Oh yeah? Hayoung, do you take a lot of selfies? Yes i like it What kind of application do you use? Foody Foody? Isn't it for taking a picture of food? I use a lot of 'delicious 1' (Delicious selfie ...?) Me 4 4 4 (She's so beautiful) Now let ’s continue to the last question This time, this is a question I really wanted to ask you guys Now close your eyes Honestly, Apink is now 9th anniversary. Raise your hand if you think the secret tip that you could keep for 10 years is you One, two, three Okay, three of you, please lower your hands Now open your eyes! I won't tell who raised. There are 3 people First, I'll ask Naeun first. Is there any secret tip that you could keep for 10 years? Ah, the secret of keeping our team? Yeah, why? Are you trying tell us the tip for being young face? The beauty secret? You can talk about anything We have very good harmony and sometimes not This is I have been doing this for 16 years now
Over 15 years I know exactly how Naeun feels You do exactly when you do it and
when not, they leave each other alone To think about each other Yes That's why you are just in a business relationship Please tell us Chorong Oh, I'm not talking this because it's a broadcast but I met the members well Because when we are having a conversation Honestly, even if I talk as a leader, There may be members who are not listening (eye contact) And while you're talking about the members who don't listen well, you looked at the left I will believe that there can be one of them. I think it will be all the other members. But when we talk to each other, we try to listen and understand the difference. I think it's the reason we can keep up You got anything, Bomi? The secret of maintenance? I think the humor code fits well among us That's very important, most important Are there any chances for the members who raised a hand to give an excuse? No, Eunji
I asked three people who didn't raise their hands first. Oh really ??
(Thanks to Eunji, 3 of them are revealed) Eunji! What's the secret of you keeping the team? Ah I have a lot of high note parts Oh agree (High notes that go up so well) (Apink's high note is Eunji for sure) So I think I played a quite important role Without Eunji, the songs would have gone down an octave. (What) Now, Ha Young I think the secret is the 6 members But you raised your hand As Chorong plays a good role as a leader,
like a sandwich at the bottom Oh, you mean the team is keeping up well because you're playing your role well Yeah Is this okay?
(Nice cleaning up??) Yeah Now to Namjoo,
Please tell us the secret you want to have for keeping up furthermore First, we made our debut as a group with pure image And little by little, we are pursuing a change. And I thought I was at the center of the change We will always try to show you a new image! Nice organizing Good
So far, it was TMI news. Now, Shindonggayo's next corner is Boasting a huge views
It's time to make a perfect dance video Shall we dance with Shindong? Before learning the choreography I have to watch the dance first so that I can know which part I'll learn Ah, we are showing? Yes, it's a little narrow here though Do we dance the whole song? Yeah! Wait
Should we just go with verse one? No matter Then till the end? Yeah ('Duhmdurum', famous for its unique and hard choreography) (The whole choreography at Sindonggayo) (Comfortable and relaxed) I have to react (Duhmdurum's representative choreography) You can get closer with members during this choreography (Naeun, who got caught in Bomi's clothes because of the narrow stage) (Looking carefully at the learning part) (Powerful choreography despite a light performance) It's hard (A perfect stage even though it's hard) (The choreography doesn't look easy) I think the choreographer is from Korea? I think you're already struggling Yes Verse 1 is over now. (Rough sigh) The choreography never stops. (Stumble) Hayoung, you seem to be in trouble? Let's go (admire) You stand in a line a lot, right? (The hardest choreography) (it's so hard) Who said that you'll dance to the end? Who was it? Hayoung? Why why? You said it's okay I didn't answer Who was it! Almost there. Let's go!
(Real criminal, Namjoo, silently dancing hard) They started to say 'Ouch!' (Apink, who dance hard till the end) (Step twisted) It's almost done! It was Apink's choreography. You're really tired now I know the reason
You came so early for Inkigayo today Although the stage people see is in the afternoon, You must have prepared from the evening last night.
I know Thank you very much for dancing till the end
(That's why Apink is the best) But the hard thing is from now on
Because you have to teach me You dance very well. Me? You're famous for following so fast. Yes? It ’s really an old story. Which part should I learn? How about from the chorus to the hook? Oh good
(All of that?) (Must be a little long) Now let's try it
How many minutes are we left? (12 minutes before sending Apink to Inkigayo) Can you do it? Let's try Bomi will teach me
Can you please do it in front of me? Duhm Why are you skipping the front part? Just grab the heart here
(From the beginning again) But before this, stand cool My heart is Duhmduru Duhmdurum Duhm Now I only did three movements.
You also do like this when you learn We praise a lot Please do a lot
Let's continue! Like this? Yes here like this How did you do? No, how did it changed?
(New magic choreography) (Just turn it) Like this and 
what! Why did it change ???? (Buffering) Oh, but it looks like you're rounding one more than me! Oh it's just like this, okay (choreography class suddenly speeds up) Yes then
(Following as much as possible) Ah same Oh why is it different (Bomi's getting tired and Shindong's reading her face) (Scan error) Until here, first
Good job You can teach me slowly now Please teach me slowly
(Did you say to me?) Oh, the next person will teach me? (Replaced by Namjoo) Ah, one by one (Slowly one by one) I can't believe I'm teaching Shindong a dance!
(Today's choreographer) Elbow Oh cute Hit one leg Oh cute
(feels good in praise of being cute) (This is my first time to see him like this) Was there a choreography like this? Yes right Choreography like this? It ’s cool if you do it quickly. (Choreography that fits with lyrics) Definitely a Korean choreographer Definitely a Korean choreographer (It has left) (I can't teach you because it's funny) (Rong teacher came up) (Same hand direction?) No sis! (Replaced by Naeun) What is it (Reversed hand direction) (studying) (it's difficult) (The finger is a point) Oh, it's 'dot dot dot'?
Use your fingers to express the dot Now next (Practicing seriously) (Difficult T.T) (confused) (Another missed movement) (All together this time) It's especially hard to do, why can't I memorize it well?
Did you have a hard time, too? Yes it's still hard Yeah?
I'm having a hard time, too Isn't it because of a diet? Huh? Oh it might be By the way, it's been a while since I did this Apink needs to go now for Inkigayo Oh yeah? Shindong will challenge only 2 times Let's do it If you try and fail, Shindong will officially take a video alone Oh, okay, can I success?
(When failed, he'll personally upload on SNS) Yes! You can do it (You can do it) If I fail, I will personally take it and upload on SNS on the date of this episode being uploaded I wish you failed Oh yeah? It's a bit strange Now, first challenge
Apink's Duhmdurum Please give me music Let's think it will fail at first (Opposite direction)
Already wrong (Movements twisted right away) (But still challenging till the end) (Really cleaning up the tears) I memorized the back, but the front part is not memorized OK I admit, I failed
It's my first time sweating like this Uh, but I can't memorize the front part
(Checking choreography for the last time) (Final check) This way, why can't I memorize it? Oh right! (Passionate student) Ok i can do it I feel like practicing choreography together. Let's go
Last challenge! Now it's the last challenge
Can I make it while sweating like this Please expect for the success and if I fail, I will keep my promise I will definitely upload it on my SNS
Please give me music (Made a mistake at 'dot dot dot') No, this is not a failure Is this a failure? success! Isn't this a success? You failed (Cheer) (The temperature difference between them) I see you, I see you It was so close that only one part is wrong I still remembered, right? Eunji saw from behind and said "Yes, yes, yes" Sorry, but Shindonggayo failed I'm going to upload Apink's choreography video on my SNS for sure Now this corner
Music video reaction releasing time It's time to watch the video with Shindong Even though when you get embarrassed
You have to make the reaction big, you know? Like foreigners doing Wow! You know this Please do it when you come out This is our first time for a movie reaction So you have to do well this time Music video PLAY Who's leg is that Ow~ (hard reaction) Did you deliberately make that long? no It's elegant! elegant Oh Gucci pin I love the color It's like an egg! There's a lot of water
I think the hair is blocking a drain He said the hair is blocking a drain The water was on the floor, but it was actually very cold that day.
We really suffered that the staff wear boots Oh it was very cold But we were very Duhmdum (Calm) Eunji's hair was tied so hard.
Your eyes are slightly up? Yes it was so hard You saw in detail Bomi is collecting dragon balls. Oh, I was in the room of a mirror everywhere So I'm not afraid of the fireworks Each one is under an unreal situation.
Namjoo is filled with water. Oh I got it I think you shouldn't go to that station Why? Because of the scary sisters Oh you're looking at people! Waiting for a person to pass Eunji raps.
(High note and even a rap) Uh, did the train suddenly go into the water? Even calm in the water this is all dream Oh it's like that? Everything is a dream? Wow, that's cool, Bomi Wasn't it difficult? Because of friction while dancing That wasn't difficult, and the director wanted us to dance in a freestyle so that it could splash some water Oh the most difficult thing! It's difficult! So it came out nicely but I only splashed it with my feet Oh, just to shoot the splashing scene It nicely came out The scene was so cool but actually, like this This time, we released Bomi's dance version and it was really pretty Thank you I woke up from a dream Alone?? Are all the others still dreaming? I did not know I think it was all happening in a dream. Because there are situations of non-sense Ha Young's train goes under water,
Chorong is sitting with a puppy in a prison It's gorgeous, but my reality is that I'm trapped
Also Naeun is actually a mannequin after all. Now that's it It was so good Is that a parrot? Yes, but I'm scared of birds There are many people who are afraid of birds Whenever we move or carry the bird, it keeps poop to fly So, every place I keep walking around Poop? Yeah Why can't you use the word poop? No, it's a bit.. Dung dung Dung was all over the place. (Love it) It was time for watching the music video I was with Apink today Even though you are hitting a jackpot already, we prepared pollen for you to hit more jackpots! Thank you for being with us, Apink! thank you Now you can go out Naeun, and Eunji Yes, you really can go Don't we say goodbye? We don't do that Goodbye goodbye Chorong goodbye, and the last Bomi, goodbye (Please look forward to the cookie video) Shindonggayo with Apink (A few days later ... Shindong's choreography video sent to the production team) 