(gun cocking) So let's look at music in film, or better yet, let's listen. (speaking in foreign language) (gun shooting) Muisc can change the impact
of a scene dramatically. (punching and kicking) Which is why in Atomic Blonde, this 12 minute badass scene is cut without any music at all. Elisabet Rolandsdottir,
the Icelandic editor, understands that fight scenes flow just like music. - [Elisabet] I find it easy to
edit well choreographed action. But then again I do come from dance background and I have made a lot of
short dance films in the past. So I understand the basics of choreography and action is the alpha male dance. You can dance tango or
you can dance karate. - This, by the way, is
from Steve Hullfish's excellent interview series Art of the Cut. Elisabet and director David Leach, who created an entire 80's
playlist for the rest of the film felt that this scene
works best without music. (shouting and falling) But they both collaborated
on another film. (upbeat music) (gun shooting) This iconic fight scene
pulses with the music magnifying the action. (glass breaking) (speaking in foreign language) So when do you pull the trigger
on using music in a scene? (fighting) Let's find out. So here's the thing. Music Vine asked me to make a video to show off their new website design and how you can more
easily access their tracks. So I thought why not
have some fun with it. I'm going to recut this
scene from Atomic Blonde using Music Vine tracks and I'm going to follow three guidelines. Number one, it can be any
track, any music genre, because she said herself. - [Elisabet] I like to use music that isn't necessarily on
the same emotional level as what's happening in the scene. - [Narrator] Number two,
I can not change picture. I have to stick with the edit the way that Elisabet cut it. - [Elisabet] I really
believe that there's music in the editing itself and if you get the editing correct you can actually put any music
on it and it's going to work. - [Narrator] So whatever
changes I will want to do is with the music to fit the picture. And number three, it has to
be better than the original. (pen scratching) I'm kidding, that's impossible. It just can't suck. I gotta try and make it work and have fun with it, so here we go. I'm going to put Atomic
Blonde into a timeline, so here's my scene right here. At some point here I
definitely want to hear music just like in John Wick. (guns shooting) Let's take a look at some music. This is what the new website
looks like at Music Vine. It has all these different categories. Cinematic, promotional,
business and industry, indie, wedding, we can try cinematic to see what we find in here. It gives me some more key
words that might define what the style is that I'm looking for. Dark would work, high drama for sure, dramatic ending. I like these three. I'm going to start exploring those three. High drama. (slow dramatic music) So I can tell this is
a nice song, but slow. So maybe I want to tell Music Vine, give me faster music. And I have some additional filters here. Energy. Let's go with intense. (intense music) Okay, I'm liking this. This is kind of Bourne Identity. (guns shooting) I'm not 100% sure this is right, but for now I'm just going
to give it a little marker. I can also create a playlist and I'm going to call
it Atomic Blonde, save. Let's listen to a couple more tracks before I really decide. (intense music) Ooh, I like this a lot. (slamming) (grunting) Also what I like about this track here is I can tell there are four loops here. Maybe at some point
it's a little too big, so then I can decide I just
want to use it as an underscore so it's a bit more subtle. (dramatic music) Let's move on. Going back to that question, when should you use music in a scene? I asked Dr. Karen Pearlman, who's an editor and a choreographer and here's what she had to say. Quite often we won't put
music under a whole scene but we'll find that moment where the scene turns emotionally
or dramatically. (playful music) And we'll start a music
cue from that moment so that it carries forward
into the next scene to give it the tone
that we're looking for. But to me it's really
gotta be a collaboration of the editor's sense of time and movement with the composer's sense of time and tone and that's when it comes
together to make a great rhythm. (orchestral music) (gun shooting) (speaking in foreign language) (intense music) Oh, this is nice, let's
see where this goes. Okay, so I found a bunch of tracks here. Let's see if I can find
something against stereotype. Let's give it a try, see what happens. What the hell, bubblegum pop. (pop music) (laughing) Okay, this is crazy but I
kind of dig it, let's do it. The other thing that I
would like to point out is their collections. They're basically curating playlists. And again, I'm kind of
looking for something to go against type so maybe Blissful Ambient could
be really fun to try out. (slow music) (guns shooting) - Go! - [Narrator] I like this one. I'll probably go back to the site and see if I can find two
or three different types of against type style music. I just want to tell you what happens next. These are all the tracks that I like. I'm just going to download them and start putting them
into my editing software. I was listening in on Tatiana Riegel, who's the editor of I, Tonya. This was at EditFest recently and she talked about how
she works with music. The first thing she said is
be careful with cutting scenes with music already in the timeline because music can mask some
of the problems in the edit. (dance music) So cut the scene first,
then put the music to it and possibly make adjustments, or not, because you might not need to. (dance music) (applause) The brain will make automatic connections between the music and
the flow of the scene. Don't believe me? Go back 20 seconds, turn
off the audio and play back. I bet you didn't notice that bad edit that I snuck in there. - She's a darling figure. - [Narrator] Another thing
that Tatiana pointed out is that she's very hesitant
to cut to temp score. (chattering) Because the last thing you want is an unhappy director or producer who fell in love with a
music track they can't get. (dramatic music) (door slamming) (guns shooting) (pop music) ♪ I thought that I knew you ♪ ♪ I thought I'd see right through you ♪ ♪ I was gone, I've been gone ♪ ♪ The darkness carries my sight ♪ ♪ Can't fight it, can't beat it ♪ ♪ I think I've been defeated ♪ ♪ Can't fight it, can't hide it ♪ ♪ My heart is stuck on you ♪ Recap, number one, cut
without music first. Make sure that all your edits work. But maybe not, I actually
like to use music to inspire a cut, but even then I turn
off the music afterwards and revisit everything. Number two, beware of
cutting with temp music. A lot of composers really
don't want to listen to temp music because
they often feel pressured to do a sound-alike. Also, if you fall in love with the music and then can't get the rights, you just made your life
miserable for no good reason. Finally, when should you
cut music to a scene? Well, maybe for contrast,
accent, to magnify an emotion, or to mask a problem. I hope you like this episode. Do let me know in the
comments if you enjoyed this approach of working with a brand. Check out Music Vine, play
along with their new website, and enjoy 50% off on your next purchase by clicking the link in
the video description. When they're doing this flailing, like these air punches, that's when I want the music
to go into second gear. Oh, by the way, if you want
to watch me cut that scene with the bubblegum pop, just click on over on
Patreon and have some fun. (upbeat music) 