Four words that changed lives in the 90s: It was more than a bracelet It was a cultural revolution. Maybe some of you watching this don't remember WWJD, To you, it's just a Christian meme, a meme for Jesus. But "what would Jesus do" was a way of life for like a year, maybe two. it was this thing that made you reflect for a second before you went ahead and sinned anyways and when I say cultural revolution, I do mean it was a revolution, I mean Topanga war WWJD bracelet on Boy Meets World, that's--that's my proof. Well, thank you Topanga! your wrist prooves that you're Christian. So, it got us thinking, because the 90s were such a simple time, but what would Jesus do in 2018? Things are a bit more complex now. Aren't they? I mean we live in a rapidly changing world. What would Jesus do now? How would he react? Liberal: "Hey, listen, Jesus, uh that last portion of your sermon today, was a little problematic." Jesus: "What? It's the same thing I've always been saying?" Liberal: "Right, but it wasn't very inclusive I'm sure it was just an oversight but you forgot to include the people who don't call on your name. Don't worry You still have time to fix this. I've actually composed an apology tweet for you. Just go ahead and send this." Jesus: "So, I Need your forgiveness?" And I think he might have a bit of culture shock when it comes to the more conservative types too. Conservative: "Did I hear correctly that Jesus himself is coming to church this morning?" Girl: "Yeah, he is. Conservative: "Okay I'm trying not to panic because somebody turned over all the coffee tables in the Welcome Center cafe!" Jesus: "Oh, wow! and you have a bookstore too!" I think Jesus probably would utilize social media to spread the good news But maybe little differently than we do. Like I don't think he would be so self-righteous about it. Jesus: "You have heard it said... A thread." And I also don't think he would do that whole like "humble brag thing". Jesus: "Wow! That moment when you go to the pool and end up healing a blind man, just a normal Tuesday. #blest" And all of his tweets get 12 retweets except later on, they start only getting 11. Dead giveaway. Jesus: "wow, I never knew a kiss could hurt so much. #Betrayed #LessonLearned #IProphesiedThis" Actually, I can't really think of a good way that the good Lord could use Twitter. I don't think he'd use Twitter. Maybe he'd have a podcast or somethin'. Jesus: "Imagine you're a father. You wake up one morning, make some breakfast, but then you realize, your son, is gone. he took your money and disappeared and you're not even mad. You just want him back. Where. is. your son?" *music* "From town of Bethlehem productions, it's Prodigal. One parable told week by week. I'm Jesus." But assuming he did get his message out there, I honestly don't know how well it would be received I mean I know it's easy to assume that we'd all be a lot more receptive than the folks that got triggered by him 2,000 years ago But no, we wouldn't. 0% chance. Jesus: "Blessed are the poor, for Caesar shall take care of them so you don't have to worry about it!" Guy: "Wow Jesus, your sermons have been really great lately. Jesus: "Thanks! I'm trying to appeal to the kids." I'm sure whatever Jesus would say in 2018 would be just as uncomfortable to us as was what he said to them back then because What he said back then is still very uncomfortable today. Oh, what if he had a Facebook account? Jesus: "Hey guys. I just wanted to make a big deal about the fact that I'm deleting my Facebook account, I just think it's a huge, huge waste of time and I want to be more productive. So, text me if you need me or just pray." Guy: "He'll be back in three days, guaranteed!" Jesus: "Hey guys, I just wanted to inform you that...Goodbye!" Jesus: "You have heard it said... a thread. a thread. a thread. a thread a thread a thread a thread. He took your money and disappeared and You're not even mad. You just want him back. Where is your son? From town of Bethlehem productions." *laughter* 