Wait a minute Once I show up, Timeline becomes boisterous From head to toe, Eyes Stop, stop Oooo What’s she doing? doing? Blah blah Oooo She’s odd, odd, odd so much School and home and school and home. So boring everyday Then close the book and get up Honestly, you’re curious about me, aren’t you? I’ll let you know my TMI Long-haired, pure and pathetic Uh uh The girl in drama, who is Hot these days (No!) I don’t want someone copying someone (No oh) That’s not my type, I’m not interested I want you talk about everything in your Timeline Seem annoying, what do you think about me? Oooo My way of talking, dressing My personality Blah blah Oooo Good, or Bad, whatever Tag me, tag me Call me now Dadadadadada I’ll run anywhere What can I do? I can’t stop myself If I want to, Just now, I have to. Tag, tag, tag, in the first line Would you write down about me? Tag, tag, tag who am I? How am I? No, no, no Nobody can Stop me If I want to, Just now, I have to. Once I show up, Timeline becomes boisterous From head to toe, Eyes stop, stop Oooo what’s she doing? doing? Blah Blah Oooo she’s odd, odd, odd so much I can’t be defined by any word in a dictionary Well, if I had to explain myself Well Like a proper noun? (Maybe) I’m me, not anyone else. Hair all tied up in my own way Oh oh I don’t care I’m going to go on my own (Go!) Teachers always say to me Oh What are you up to every day? I want you talk about everything in your timeline Seem annoying, what do you think about me? Oooo My way of talking, dressing My personality Blah blah Oooo Good, or Bad, whatever Tag me, tag me Call me now Dadadadadada I’ll run anywhere What can I do? I can’t stop myself If I want to, Just now, I have to. Tag, tag, tag, in the first line Would you write down about me? Tag, tag, tag who am I? How am I? No, no, no Nobody can Stop me If I want to, Just now, I have to. Me Me, Nobody can stop me It’s so boring to sit still I feel strange to the ordinary world School and home and school and home. So boring everyday Then close the book and get up Hurry, Hurry I want to know everything out there (My heart’s beating pit-a-pat
Don’t hesitate, follow me) Tag me, tag me Call me now Dadadadadada I’ll run anywhere What can I do? I can’t stop myself If I want to, Just now, I have to. Tag, tag, tag, in the first line Would you write down about me? Tag, tag, tag who am I? How am I? No, no, no Nobody can Stop me If I want to, Just now, I have to. Once we show up, Timeline becomes boisterous From head to toe, Eyes Stop, stop Oooo What’s she doing? doing? Blah blah Oooo She’s odd, odd, so much On K-Pop Wonderland, 1theK Please enjoy more videos 