It's the second week of broadcasts for MORE & MORE. Here to do our 1st show of the week
SHOW CHAMPION! We're just hanging out and chatting. Behind me is TZUYU glued to the floor. Slee….ping?
No, just looking my way. Sana's checking (Betty Boop tweeted about her A-list fan,Sana)
the Betty Boop tweets. (Yay!)
In front of me are JEONGYEON with her camera DAHYUN reading her script and JIHYO winking! TWICE "MORE & MORE"
promo week 2 Just had jajangmyeon!
(noodles in blackbean sauce) And jjamppong!
(hot seafood noodles) And tansuyuk!
(sweet sour & crispy pork) JEONGYEON likes to pour the sauce. I prefer to dip. We're not compatible. Now who is this pretty face? (Her 'real friend' snickers) (pretty) (pretty) Beware, there may be black sauce! (oops) (oh no) (TOFU is busy studying her script) (Smile) Here's me being professional. "Nine girls known for this point dance
will join us in a short while." "Prepare to be blown away
by the TWICE magic!" Looks like somebody's gonna be
the new host of Music Bank soon. (shy) (shy) (DAHYUN is to emcee
the upcoming Music Bank special)
DAHYUN, the new face of Music Bank! Did you practice? Nope.
Script won't be ready till Thu night. Guess you'll be 
memorizing lines all Friday. Let'em know 
you want to be the new host. (How, JEONGYEON?)
How do I do that, JEONGYEON? When you introduce yourself say
"Hello. I'm DAHYUN, your new host." Such wisdom 
from the ex-host of Inkigayo! And say:"I'm happy to join the team."
Easy peasy. - Is that all?
- Yep. Just ease your way in. And ask "What time should I come in next week?" They'll make you host right away. (We want DAHYUN as the new host
for Music Bank!!!!) I will do as you say, 
wise sisters. (evil eye) She's making the Yeo Da Kyung face!
(from the series The World of the Married) How are you going to do your hair
for the next album? Red color No thanks. How about you? Your hairstyle for the next album? First off, 
no more hair extensions. I want to dye my hair. What color? I dunno. I don't think they'll let me, though. (It's Mina!) Paprika. Oh, yeah
the dance was sort of like that. Wanna check out
JEONGYEON's hairdo? Let me show you. This is art. (Even the back of her head is pretty!)
Let's see where it leads. Today.... We're at Show Champion. I had to leave home
earlier than others. What for? I went to... see the birthday ad
fans put up for me (Very excited about the special b-day gift)
and took photos. This is the script for today. (TZUYU interview short & sweet)
It's a wrap. Bye! Hello there! Today, 
we do the watermelon. (Tdoongs planning a watermelon ending)
Yeah, where we usually do this. When we end with "So one more time / more"
I thought I'd do this. No, no. Do this. (JEONGYEON the goofy face) Whatcha doin' Whatcha doin' Whatcha doin'
Whatcha doin' Whatcha doin'? (Lovely MOMO) You've got the 
Dance the Night Away vibe. (cheery peppy)
You in white, it's DTNA all over again. - Really?
- Yeah. - Like DTNA?
- Yeah, on Music Bank. Oh, I remember! (Jihyo's necklace is broken)
It broke! Oh, no! (Jihyo the klutz) Oh, No!!! Hello Jadoo! (NAYEON looks like that girl 
in Hello Jadoo!) (Cutie NAYEON)
Yeah, or you know the Nangliang 18. You know! That girl. Nangliang(?) 18 - What on earth is Nangliang 18?
- It's 'Nanglang' not 'Nangliang'. I was worried this hair
do might not work. It worked! Yep,
our amazing hairstylist pulled it off. Nothing's impossible for her. She rocks! What's this for? Cuteness. Cuteness. TZUYU's looking
really lovely today! - You like it?
- Yeah. (Pretty maknae (the youngest) )
Thanks. (DAHYUN's turn) (JEONGYEON films with love) How do I look today? Your skin looks radiant. (Extreme close-up to capture the radiance)
Thanks. But aren't you getting too close? Just doing some 
in-depth coverage. What do you like most about my face,
JEONGYEON? Me?  I love your eyes. They're perfect for make-up. Yeah, here,
it's ideally shaped for that. So you get to try out
new eyeshadows. I like that about your eyes. But my eyelids are chunkier.
So I can't do all that. - With colors, you mean?
- Uh huh. I love the outer corner
that you can extend. (Analysis of CHAEYOUNG's features continues)
You can draw the line super long. I could never. Why not? 
You should try. It's long here,
so if I draw the line longer, I could look a bit intimidating. We're the opposites. It's long here, 
and short here. But me,
short here and long here. What's inside? I'll inspect her bag. (Timidly she pulls
out a bag of almonds) This is the one! It's really really good. - I want some.
- Here you go! MINA, can I film you? (Nope (just kidding))
Nope. (Free (game) lives for 30 mins)
I got free lives for 30 mins. (Mina's busy playing her game) She's enjoying her
30 min game time. (Do not disturb for 30 mins (serious)) (DAHYUN's rehearsing for Music Bank Special)
Music Bank Live for all around the world Hello,
I am from the group TWICE - It's too silly.
- But you can't laugh! DAHYUN, imagine. (SHASHA creates a scenario to help DAHYUN focus.)
You're stranded alone here. Somebody's gotta come and save you. Hello, I'm from the group TWICE And my name is DAHYUN. (DAHYUN is always doing her best!) I can do this! (TOFU in self-affirmation mode)
Because I am DAHYUN. I can do this. "Who will it be on the No. 1 spot?" Wish it's TWICE!!! (Respecting privacy) (More & More dance time with Boo) Boo's not photogenic at all! (The real life Boo is far more adorable.) (Camera massage for Boo.)
You need a camera massage, Boo. (Getting a camera massage) (Boo, the celebrity dog!)
Look how handsome you've become! (Hey there, ONCE.) I'm here to get my make-up fixed. We'll be doing
a pre-recording soon. The make-up artist
working on me has appeared
on other Youtube channels. She's Ms. Cho Sang-ki. This is Ms. Yeon Ji-yeon. Your No. 1 focus when doing my make-up? Bottom eyeliner. Bottom? Never knew that. Sang-ki chose you as
the prettiest without make-up. (JIHYO & TZUYU - most beautiful au naturel)
Yeah, me and TZUYU. (Yay!)
(Feeling good) I'm hear at Music Bank with Boo. (Love Mommy!)
His eyes are fixed on Momo. I was going to film Boo
but you beat me to it. Mr. Boo,
will you please slate? Boo sleepy? (Tdoongs love Boo) Hey, he looks Gallant! Yeah, isn't there a logo
that looks like that? (Couldn't make out what she said, sorry)
Mina has @$^$&%# today. I think it's lovely. MINA! (Oh my!) You look pretty. JEONGYEON's
watching a funny video. SANA's taking selfies. JEONGYEON's hair
looks beautiful today. I'm at SBS to do
the Music Trend shoot. Today's the final TV shoot
for MORE & MORE. And it's TZUYU's birthday! (Happy b-day TZUYU!) Happy birthday to you~ (DUBU sings for TZUYU) Happy birthday to you~ Happy birthday dear TZUYU~ Happy birthday to you~ Anthing to say, B-day girl? Thank you. (A thank you message for the parents)
How about something for your parents? I can only imagine
the pain you suffered this day to bring me
into this world. Thank you so much
for giving me life. (Thank you, Mr. & Mrs. Chou!) The last 2 weeks
flew by in a flash. Super excited about the live show
I'll be doing later! (TZUYU birthday photo shoot) Got it! Look this way and smile. (Determined to get
the best shot of TZUYU!) (How to enjoy backstage
with TDOONG) (1. Browse through old pictures) (2. Have fun playing games) (3. Never miss out on mukbang time) (4. Join the chitchat and laughter) (TDOONGs fill the backstage
with giggles) (5.Review stage performance) (-Eyes and ears glued to the screen-) (Backstage is never dull
with TWICE!) (These two weeks with
MORE & MORE were fab!) A huge thank you to ONCE
for all your love! 