“For those of you
who don’t know me out there, I guess there’s a couple of you -- not!”
[Laughs] Machiavelli argued that it is better
to be feared than loved, but Helen Harris III would
probably contend that it’s better still to be envied. “I’d like to take this opportunity
to honor Lil and Doug with a short poem I penned
while sitting on a swing in an exclusive resort in Telethaniki.” The Bridesmaids antagonist lives high up
on a pedestal of her own making. Yet Helen’s gift for appearing
untouchably perfect doesn’t translate into
a happy private life. “These are my kids.”
“Oh!” “Step kids.”
“Step.” [Laughs] Helen doesn’t get that making people covet what you have
doesn’t make them like you. “She will make friends. There is much more sense
of community in coach, I promise you.” By working so hard
to be an object of admiration, she puts up walls that block her
from getting what she really wants: friends. Here’s our take on what it’s like to be the woman other women hate
(but want to be), and why Helen has no friends. “There’s a term
the young people are using -- BFF. BFF. And you’re my BFF:
best friend forever.” streaming any time, anywhere. The antagonist of a story is
usually a dark mirror of the hero, representing what our protagonist
needs to overcome. “I mean it’s a bernaise.
It’s, it’s one of a kind -- I just -- I don’t think there’s a question.” In Bridesmaids,
Annie is crippled by low self-esteem, so it follows that the villain of her story
is a woman who seems specifically designed to make her feel inadequate. “Maybe she’ll find a new best friend.
And maybe she will be more successful than you are,
and prettier and richer and skinnier.” Annie has recently suffered
a devastating personal loss. “He was my boyfriend, and then he left... me when...
the business went under, so.” Meanwhile, her best friend Lillian’s
impending wedding rudely announces to her
that her peers have it way more together. “I feel like her life is going off
and getting perfect, and mine is just like…” From the start, we witness voices inside Annie’s head
and in the society around her telling her what kind of woman
she should be. “Why can’t you be more like Kahlua?” And making her hyper-aware
of the ways she’s falling short. “This is my husband.
You don't have a husband.” The movie begins with her
trying to project the image of the ideal woman. “I just woke up, are you kidding?
I’m sure I’m a mess.” to a handsome guy who’s actually obnoxious
and awful to be around. “He’s so hot though.” “Look, I know you say he’s cute
and all that stuff, but he makes you feel like shit,
you know.” And at Lillian’s engagement party,
she’s repeatedly shamed for failing to achieve her culture’s
ultimate feminine success -- marriage. “I'm not with anybody. I’m here solo.” All these reminders of Annie’s inadequacy
build to the moment when she meets… “Helen!” Helen embodies everything
Annie wishes she was: she’s wealthy, has married well,
and is exceedingly pretty. “You’re so pretty.”
[Helen laughs] Her name evokes Helen of Troy --
the figure in Greek mythology whose beauty “launched a thousand ships”
and started the Trojan War. So essentially Helen is the
unattainable ideal of womanhood that’s plaguing Annie. “Whitney? It’s Helen.” “Helen Harris?”
“Yeah!” “Hi!” “HI!” Meanwhile, “Annie” might make us
think of down-on-her-luck orphan Annie. “Help me, I’m poor.” Yet this story uses Helen as proof that having all the status symbols
in the world will not make you happy. “Perry never really
wants to talk to me, either. He travels a lot. Like, all year.
I’m -- I’m basically just by myself.” When people appear to have it all, “We went on a sweetheart honeymoon.” “Oh, where did you guys go?”
[at the same time] “Disney World.” “Oh...”
“We finish each other’s sentences, sorry!” usually that’s just because
we’ve only seen the tip of the iceberg “Kevin can only have sex in bed,
in the dark, under the covers, only after we have showered, separately.” What’s interesting is that the evidence of Helen’s unhappiness is
blatant, right there out in the open. “I shared things with you
that I’ve never shared with anyone. Painful things to do with my family
and the pain I’ve caused them.” Annie just chooses to overlook it. “It’ll just give the pill
the little kick that it needs -- honestly, I do it all the time.” At the engagement party, Helen is more dressed up
than the bride-to-be, revealing a need to overcompensate. “The whole gown, and
the ooh... you know, thing. It’s just weird, right?”
“Well...” Her step-kids clearly despise her. “F-[BLEEP] off, Helen.”
“Okay, put a quarter in the swear jar. So cute.”
“Sweet kids.” And her desperate possessiveness of a woman she’s known for
less than a year tells us she doesn’t have any long-lasting
close relationships in her life. “You’re my angel and soulmate.” So the miserable Helen reveals
that Annie’s problem isn’t that she’s not desirable, successful,
or rich enough -- it’s that she’s wasting time
wanting to be a Helen. “Let us shower Lillian
with gifts and love. Repondez s’il vous plait. Yay!” Annie’s only way forward is to stop looking outward
at the Helens of the world, and turn inward instead. “‘Cause you’re your problem, Annie.
And you’re also your solution.” To reconnect with her passion
and take responsibility for her life. “Helen just…” “Oh! Don’t...
This didn't happen because of Helen. This happened because
you didn't get your tail lights fixed.” Women want to be Helen but that doesn’t mean
they want to be around her. “I don’t have any female friends.” [Sobs] Deep down she craves female closeness.
All she really wants is to hang out... “Maybe sometime the three of us
could go to Rockin’ Sushi together.” “Thank you, Annie. I -- I would love that.” But she’s her own worst enemy
when it comes to forging real bonds. Here’s what Helen Harris teaches us
about how not to make friends: Be fake-friendly. First, there’s no warmth
under Helen’s sunny persona. Her surface friendliness is
a mask for cool aggression. “Everyone should experience first class
at least once in their lives. And Annie shouldn't miss out
just because she can’t afford it.” Think of the scene
where Annie and Helen meet. “There she is, maid of honor.”
“Oh, hi!” Helen is syrupy sweet, but she still manages to get in
a subtle jab highlighting that Annie is a fixture of Lillian’s old life. “So lovely to meet
Lillian’s childhood friend.” When Annie can’t help
remarking on Helen’s beauty, Helen patronizes her. “You are so cute!
Oh, you’re so sweet.” She then tops it all off
by marking her territory, asserting how close she and Lillian are. “They are literally joined at the hip.
Which is good, because so are we!” Nothing about this interaction is inviting Annie to like Helen
or enjoy spending time with her. So her behavior reveals that
she’s not trying to make a friend here -- she’s actively making a frenemy. “I'm so glad we were able to do this.” The pleasant facade mixed with disdain might remind us of Mean Girls villain
Regina George. “Oh my god, I love your skirt,
where did you get it?” Somehow Helen’s or Regina’s
transparently fake performance of niceness feels meaner
than open hostility. “I feel fine.”
“Are you sure? It wasn’t that gray kind of lamb?
You ate a lot of that weird chicken.” Make people feel bad about themselves. “Personally, the Paris theme’s a bit,
‘Been there, done that.’” We turn to friends to feel better. “You’re a total catch, and any guy
would be psyched to be your man.” But Helen has a way of
making people feel less than. “Yeah, and I’m much smaller than you,
so you’ll handle it.” She strategically belittles others,
and makes a point of being exclusive. Her loving toast to Lillian
has the hidden agenda of telling the rest of the room
they’re outside her inner circle. “And Dougly... I’m sorry,
inside joke.” [Laughs] Her first exchange leaves
Annie feeling like this: “She’s great, isn’t she?”
“She’s awesome.” Be possessive. Helen is evidently threatened by Annie. “She certainly enjoys playing tennis now.
It’s funny how people change, isn’t it?” She sees Lillian’s childhood friend
as a competitor for the best-friend title, rather than as a potential second friend. “I’m happy to say that I have four new
friends.” But if Helen is so thirsty
for female bonding, it’s silly that she stops at one best friend
when she could try to make more. “I think if you’re growing,
then you’re changing.” “But, I mean, we’re changing
from who we are, which we always stay as.” “Not really, I don’t think so.” Annie complains that, while it seems like she’s ruined every event
leading up to Lillian’s wedding, really, Helen is to blame: “It’s all HER fault. It is not mine!” Sure, Annie is making excuses, but she does have a point about most
of the disasters she’s taken the fall for. Helen slips her a really strong pill on the
plane, “Holy shit. What did you give her?”
“I don’t--” initiating Annie’s breakdown. “There is a colonial woman on the wing. She is dressed in traditional colonial garb.
Get off!” Helen initiates the one-up-man-ship
during the toasts at the engagement party. “I feel I can communicate
with you with simply a look.” “Lillian.” And she provokes Annie’s scene
at the bridal shower by announcing the Paris trip immediately
after Annie’s presented her gift -- intentionally interrupting a nice moment
between the old friends. “Thank you.”
“You’re welcome.” “I feel really bad, Lil,
I didn't get a chance to actually get you a present because I’ve
been so busy organizing the shower.” So it’s clear that Helen is trying to drive a wedge between
Lillian and her maid of honor. “I told you about Paris, Helen.
I told you about this whole idea!” which isn’t a very nice thing
to do to your new best friend. Buy your friends. “Guess who Helen is friends with
and who’s designing my wedding dress. Lady St. Petsois JuJu.” Helen tries to win people over
with wealth and connections. “We are going to a restaurant tonight.
I know the owner, so...” “You do?” At Lillian’s bridal shower, Annie’s heartfelt gift speaks
to how well she knows Lillian, but because Helen has no
decades-long history with the bride, she feels the need to upstage Annie with a surprise that’s unnecessarily
over-the-top and expensive. [Screams] “What woman gives
another woman a trip to Paris?” Helen’s overcompensating suggests
a deep-seated fear of not being enough. She can never be sure that
people actually like her for her. “I think people just ask
me to their weddings because I’m good at organizing parties.” So she resorts to ever-more extreme
measures to make people want her around. “Ladies and gentlemen,
here with us tonight is Lillian's favorite band,
singing her favorite song.” Her overreliance on money to form
the basis of emotional connections keeps her from developing the skills
that hold relationships together, like perception and empathy. When Lillian is missing on the wedding day,
Helen can’t understand, since all the external details
seem exactly right. “The dress looked fantastic.
It had come in from Paris. I had organized everything
to the, you know, last, final detail.” But she’s been ignoring the signs
of how Lillian’s feeling inside. “Helen just took over everything,
and everything just got out of control.” as well as how her excessive spending has cloaked the whole day
in stress for Lillian’s family. “My dad can’t afford the wedding.” People like Helen assume that adding more money into an occasion
automatically makes it better -- but it’s not always the case
that expensive equals good. Sometimes money gets in the way
of comfort, intimacy, and having a good time. “I am not paying for this shit.” Move too fast. We glean from Helen’s
engagement party speech that she and Lillian bonded over a tipsy weekend
on their husbands’ business trip. “And they were working the entire weekend, and we just sat and drank wine
and ate peanut brittle.” And in eight months’ time, Helen has embellished a good rapport
with the wife of her husband’s employee into a full-fledged best-friendship. “Lillian, you are my best friend.” But just as Helen can’t buy a
best-friendship, she can’t fast-forward into being Lillian’s bestie. That kind of true bond has to develop
at a natural pace over years, as two people get to
really know each other. [Laughs] “We listened to Hold On
probably 10,000 times when I got my driver’s license.” Doing too much. “An attendant will meet you at the stables.”
“Where?” “The shower is over the second bridge.
Pink lemonade?” “Oh, um...” Most of us might struggle
with finding the time to do enough for our friends and show up
when they need us, but Helen proves it’s possible
to do too much. “Look at that f-[BLEEP]-ing cookie!
Did you really think that this group of women was going
to finish that cookie?” Giving a gift that’s too big can make the receiver feel
uncomfortable or inadequate. It draws all the attention
to the person gifting, and so you could say it’s selfish. “It’s just a little pre-wedding vacation. And while we’re there, we’re gonna meet
the designer of her dress and have a fitting.” [Gasps] We see all this in Helen’s choice to hand out puppies
as party favors at the shower [Screams] “No, no!
She does not get a party favor! She does not get a dog!” It’s an elaborate gesture
with maximum drama and cuteness, but it saddles each party guest
with the huge unasked-for responsibility of caring for a demanding baby animal. “I did slightly overcommit
to the whole dog thing. It turns out I’m probably
more comfortable with six.” Perform your friendship. Helen’s need to constantly
put her friendship with Lillian on display is another red flag. “You better not keep my Lil on a leash,
because I still need my drunken Saturday nights at Rockin’ Sushi, okay?” Boasting about having fun together
doesn’t really bring friends closer together. It just turns your friend into
an accessory to flaunt in public. Finally, Helen’s biggest mistake
is not being herself. Her instinct in any situation
is to fall back on inauthenticity. “I’m proud of you, Lil.” [Screams] “Shut up, Helen!” Even when she finally starts
to open up to Annie, she still resorts to false flattery. “I don't think that Brazilian food
really gave us food poisoning.” “No, I -- it did.”
“No, I don't think it did.” Helen is doing herself a disservice
by being so disingenuous, because her pretension masks
a more sensitive, kind soul underneath. “It was really nice meeting you.” It’s that inner person that Lillian fell
for. “She’s actually really cool, Annie. She’s really… She's a good one.
I’m telling you.” And maybe this is why Helen gets so desperate to grasp
onto her new friendship. At last she’s found someone
who likes her for her. “You made me realize
how I can trust people again.” Unfortunately, though, her need
to always win, to be better than everyone, leads her to make choices that are
detrimental to her own happiness, like driving other women away. “You used all my ideas.”
“Thank you. I know, it really came together.” The image-obsessed culture
that Helen thrives in may care about being able to fill a party
and having people you can point to as so-called friends, but
it doesn’t make room for the things a real friendship consists of. “Is he coming?”
“I’m coming after you!” “Sorry, Rodney, we’re on a budget!” So it’s no wonder that Helen doesn’t really understand
how to be a friend. “I don’t know what's happened to her.” “I don’t know. You should know, right?
You’re her best friend.” To be envied is to experience a
distance between you and another person. You’re up high; they’re down below. “I looked up to Naomi
pretty much my entire life, which meant she was
looking down on me.” While this distance might offer
the cheap thrill of an ego boost, doesn’t it feel better
to be close to someone? “You’re like my sister,
and I love you.” Today, there’s more pressure than ever to present the perfect picture
to your Facebook friends, but if there’s one lesson
Helen teaches us, it’s that you don’t make actual friends
by getting people to wish they had your life.
Envy inspires resentment, not love. [mocking] “Oh, hi, I’m Helen. Oh...
You live in Milwaukee? I’m sorry.” Helen’s and Annie’s friendship
breakthrough finally comes when Helen does the thing she’s been
working so hard not to do: show an imperfection. “It’s the first time
I’ve ever seen you look ugly. It makes me kind of happy.” Suddenly, Annie can see
Helen as a human being, and so she can relate to her. “You’re an ugly crier, but that’s okay.” Even then, Helen resists
the moment of bonding. "I look ugly? No, I don’t.
I don’t really look ugly.” She’s not used to the vulnerability
that’s required to have a real friendship, but at least,
she’s on her way. “I wanna apologize to you personally
for all of the things that have gone down. I know that I hurt you, and that I created a distance
between you and Lillian.” In Bridesmaids, the love object
that women compete for isn’t a man -- it’s a friend. “I just want to thank you
for carefully selecting me as your maid of honor. I know
you had, uh, some other choices.” And this set-up is
so rare and interesting because our culture generally doesn’t
place the same value on friendship as it does on things like romance,
careers, money, or family. But in Bridesmaids, the love of a friend
is truly a prize worth having -- it makes everything else in life better. “I love you.”
“I love you.” So while Annie spends
most of Bridesmaids feeling bad she’s not more like Helen,
looking back over the story, it’s really Helen who’s been
deeply envious of Annie for having the most precious thing of all:
a best-friendship. [singing] “That’s what friends are for...” Hey, guys, this is Alani, 