Last time, a lot happened. We traveled into a Soulscape... RANDOM SOUL: "everything suuuccckkksss..." Reunited with Sneeze, ran into a GOTHI: "Dragon." ...introduced you all to Old Gothi... GOTHI: "heh." GOTHI: "i stole them. ...who went from a 3 to a solid 11... GOTHI: "Check out these guns." ...with some crystal stabbing... ...oh, and now Sips and Gothi are running for their lives being chased by a soul dragon and trying to exit through a now-closing portal as dead people are popping in all around them. *sigh* Did I miss anything? Alright, let's go. Sips and Gothi, seeing all the souls around them, shout for them to... SIPS:  "Move their asses into the portal or be left behind!" Like poetry. So we grab as many souls as we can, and... *SCREAMS OF AGONY* MR.WIZARDLY: "Uhh... is that supposed to happen?" ...along with Gothi and Sips. And just like that, the portal closes. ERINA: "So, how did it go?" SIPS: "Just... resurrect Sneeze." So, I managed to resurrect Sneeze without any more... inconveniences... And like that, our stabby mute thing is back. SIPS: "Okay, that's enough emotions for today, cause right now, we gotta deal with another matter." JACK: "Oh, Lord, what now?" GOTHI: "We think Rascum's under attack." ERINA: "What?" MR.WIZARDLY: "Bummer." JACK: "Rascam? You mean that city you guys saved with a, uhhhh, comb?" SIPS: "Hairbrush." MR. WIZARDLY: "Rolling pin?" SIPS: "HAIRBRUSH." Now, it's time to tell you the tale of how the Fool's Gold team saved an entire city with a single hairbrush. So, before the whole Gresh fight and stabbing Gothi thing, in search of one of the crystals from Jack's quest, we traveled to a large city in the jungle called Rascam. The standard city: large, fortified stone walls, big drawbridge... ...and a massive Foreclaimer crystal addiction problem. You know, city stuff. 'Cause turns out this city has been consuming this highly addictive crystal-like candies that are being mined from the Foreclaimer ruin underneath the city. SIPS: "Dare someone to eat it." GORTHAN: "I'm already doing it!" But as Gorthan tries to eat the crystal candy, it just breaks his teeth. GORTHAN: "I feel betrayed." Seems like the citizens, through time, have adapted their teeth to be able to eat these candies. So, no drugs for us. We travel to meet our next quest-giver and NPC: Texas Thelonious, a stuck-up high elf researcher who is Jack's colleague that also studies Foreclaimers. He's nosey and snooty and thinks everybody has a lower IQ than him. So, you know, top NPC material for this group. We meet up with Tex. TEX: "Now, I need you to-" SIPS: "Wait. So you don't have an accent?" TEX: "Why would I have an accent? That's idiotic." SIPS: "Well, I mean... Tex... Texas...huh?" GOTHI: "i get it. cuz he elf." SIPS: *sigh* JULIAN: "Actually, I like his voice." TEX: "Oh, well I love your voice as well." JULIAN: "Oh, well thank you." TEX: "No, thank you." JULIAN: "Oh, no really, it's quite all right." TEX: "No, it's fine, no." JULIAN: "Oh, it's really nice to meet someone-" ERINA: "MAKE IT STOP!" So anyway, Tex tells us that... TEX: (condescendingly) I need you to go to the Foreclaimer ruins and grab me a sample of this specific crystal." TEX: (still condescendingly) "If I get this, I might be able to cure Rascam's addiction problem. Can you do that?" TEX: "You can also grab your big crystal for Jack." SIPS: "Do we need him?" But there's a catch. The Foreclaimer ruins are controlled by the city's brutal tyrant leader: The Baron. An absolute unit of a man, gruff, and merciless, he rules Rascam by controlling the population with addiction, making people rely on his supply and... He's the drug cartel. He's literally the drug cartel. So, we kinda have two options. We sneak through the sewers to gain access to the ruins, or we somehow get the Baron to let us in. ERINA: "Hmm... This sounds like a job for a bit of..." "𝓢𝓔𝓓𝓤𝓒𝓣𝓘𝓞𝓝." SIPS: "Okay. Yeah, I'm taking the sewers. Come on Gothi." GOTHI: "who are you again?" So the group splits up, to Felix's delight. Sips, Sneeze, Gothi, and Jawbone travel through the sewers... GOTHI: "what a nice cat." *possum hisses* ...while Gorthan and Julian accompany Erina, who, with a sparkly charisma check, seduces the Baron. ERINA: "So... subbed or dubbed?" We all make our way into the ruins. Gothi and Sips find the large crystal, grab some loot, and find something... interesting. Documents, reading that these large crystals are not only jam-packed with sun energy, but also have a bigger purpose. To power up something. Something big. All five crystals, when placed in specific locations across the map open up a massive portal. But why would the Foreclaimers make a giant portal? And where did it go? We don't know. Yet... SIPS: "This is why Jack wants the crystals. It's cause he wants to open up the portal," GOTHI: "tomato is a fruit." *possum hisses* While that happens, the rest get a tour of the drug operations and sneakily grab a sample of the crystal stuff Tex wanted. Mission Accomplished! Uhh... Until... When we go to find Tex, he kind of got kidnapped. Yeah. By the Baron's men. Whoops. We find an invitation to a fancy party being held by the Baron advertising a "meal you'll never forget!" JULIAN: "They're going to eat him." SIPS: "Oh, yeah, they're gonna eat him." GOTHI: "i go get salt." Yeah, it seems like the Baron caught on to Tex's plan on curing Rascam's addiction problem and kidnapped him, and he's gonna cook him up. SIPS: "Do we need him?" JULAIN: "He does have our payment." SIPS: "Damn." So we attend the party, and with some investigation, we determined Tex is being held in the cellars connected to the kitchen. We split off, where Sips, Gothi, and Julian tackle Tex, while Erina keeps the Baron occupied, while Gorthan tries not to eat more crystals. SIPS: "Okay-" GORTHAN: (distant) "BETRAYAL!" SIPS: "We need to distract the kitchen staff, but how?" GOTHI: "do you like my rock? his name is dwayne." So we activate our trap card: Senile Gothi! GOTHI: "young man? i have a complaint." CHEF: "Uhhh..." GOTHI: "your soup is too hot." CHEF: "Well..." GOTHI: "and your ice is too cold!" CHEF: "I..." GOTHI: "and another thing!" CHEF: "Uhhh..." GOTHI: "where am i?" Down in the cellar, we find our snooty elf chained up. TEX: "Oh, thank god! About time, monkey. Now get me out of these chains." SIPS: "You know what, Julian? Elf meat probably doesn't taste that bad." TEX: "You can't be serious." JULIAN: "Eh, it's not that great." Then, we hear a loud noise coming from upstairs. SIPS: "Stay here." TEX: "I'll try." We run up into the ballroom to find quite a scene: people are all running in panic, guards yelling, and a large dire bear destroying half the dining hall. SIPS: "What the f**k, Erina?" ERINA: "I didn't do it!" And she didn't. While we were down in the cellar, Erina was just making small talk with the Baron when he takes a drink. ERINA: "So, what anime are you into? I feel like you're a JoJo kinda guy.
BARON: *violent coughing* ERINA: "Yeah, me too. I think I like the manga more though."
BARON: *violent coughing* He falls to the floor, and right in front of Erina's eyes, the BEARon transforms into a large size dire BEAR. Get it? *inhales* We're all gonna die. So why did he turn into a dire bear, you ask? Well, turns out somebody slipped a rare berry into his drink: a berry called a bloodmoon berry. When given to a person, this berry brings out their inner beast or monster, polymorphing them and amplifying their alignment. So now we're not only up against a lawful evil baron, uh... We're up against a super lawful evil dire bear baron that's pissed off and trying to find out who messed with him. He starts murdering people, left, right, and center: the guards trying to take him down, our group too, but we're just getting our butts kicked... people are panicking... It doesn't look so good. SIPS: "Think. Evil bear..." SIPS: "guards..." SIPS: "panic...eh..." SIPS: "buffet?" SIPS: "No! Ugh..." *gasp* SIPS: "GORTHAN!" GORTHAN: "HUH?" SIPS: "Gorthan, I need you to toss me onto the bear." SIPS: "I got a hairbrush." GORTHAN: "Yeah, all right." SIPS: "Wait you're not gonna questiON UAHH!" SIPS: "Wait you're not gonna questiON UAHH!"
GORTHAN: "HUH" Gorthan yeets me onto the Baron's bear back. I grab hold, raise the brush into the air... SIPS: "God, I hope this works." You see, about this hairbrush. This hairbrush is one of SIps' cursed items. You remember in Episode 4, where I mentioned that Sips has a touch curse with his crocodile hand, so he can place a random curse not only on to a person but an item too. Meaning if I touch someone with this item, and they fail their will save, they will become cursed with whatever curse is placed onto the item. And on this hairbrush is the curse, "Alignment Change." AKA I can change this evil bear into a good bear. However, it's completely random on what alignment he gets. And there's nine. With one stroke of the brush, the Baron fails his save. We roll, hold our breath, and... Land on lawful good! *squeak* There's a sudden pause as the Baron stops attacking and realizes what evil he done do. And just like that, the fight ends. We found out that the guard captain's the one who slipped the berry into the Baron's drink, hoping that with the Baron becoming a big bear threat the guards would kill him, leaving the guard captain to seize power of Rascam and, eh, something like that. ERINA: "Yeah, who's this guy again?" GUARD CAPTAIN: "I'm the- I'm the guard ca- SIPS: "Yeah, I really don't know who you are." GUARD CAPTAIN: *sobs* And with that, we free Tex. The Baron, being lawful good, makes Rascam a drug-free city, curing all its citizens and ruling it under proper law. So now you guys know how we managed to save an entire city with a hairbrush. God, I don't know how we managed to do this s***. *groan* Anyway, back at the dragon, we were discussing what we should do when Julian, Abby, and Yrthan join the group. GOTHI: "What is..." SIPS: "Oh right. I still gotta deal with that." Now we face a moral dilemma. Do we fix and use the dragon in order to save Rascam knowing that it uses souls, or do we try to fight whatever it is attacking Rascam on our own? GOTHI: "Hmm. I don't know if we can use this in good conscience." ERINA: "Where did the crystal go?" SIPS: "What?" SIPS: "It's a big f**k powerful dragon who can easily kill all our enemies! GOTHI: "Sips-" SIPS: "It's fine. After two to... seven missions, we'll simply retire it. No big deal. It's not like it's-" Then the dragon starts to move on it's own in its injured state. It slowly starts to walk... towards Rascam. GOTHI: "Uhhhh..." JULIAN: "Huh. That's new," 