Three players
who've already won a game are coming back to the tower
for one final battle. I mean, it's not a battle.
It's mostly just friendly conversation. But...that sounds more dramatic! One of them will become
the Champion of Champions, and leave with their head held high. And the other two, well... They will get Disconnected. [Caption+ by JS*
https://caption.plus] Alec, Ellen, Vanessa... welcome back to the
Champion of Champions show! There is no big prize here. There's no
special award at the end of it. But one of you
will retire undefeated, having taken out eight other players
in total to be here. So...very, very best of luck
to you all. We're gonna get straight into it.
Alec, we're gonna go to you first. Congratulations on
winning your first match there. How are you feeling? Just as confident as last time,
which is to say, not at all. Alright, well, the questions
start out harder this time. So, good luck to you. I can give you the choice of
Fruit Flavours or Art Museums. Ooh, I like that choice!
I'm gonna go with Fruit Flavours. Alright, which fruit flavour do the spirits
Triple Sec and Cointreau have? Ooh, um... Gonna have to go with...
juniper berries. Alec says juniper berries. Ooh! Now, I was gonna ask
if anyone wants to challenge, but that's pretty quick
and clear there! That was straight in
with a hand up there, Vanessa. I'm guessing you know
the answer to that one? I don't have 100% confidence, but my first thought,
when you said that, was orange. I think Cointreau has
an orange flavour. So I'm going to challenge based off of
that random thought that I had. And it is an absolutely correct challenge. It was a solid bluff there, Alec.
You came in confident. But, I'm afraid
that is a bar away from you. Darn. Well, you know... I do know that's what—
the flavours of gin. So, I know how to play. It was a solid guess.
Ellen, how're you feeling? Not bad. Not bad. Would you like Hotels
or Numbers? Whoa, uh... Numbers.
Alright. What number is the amount of years
in a septennium? Is it...?
Yeah, it would be... ..seven thousand. Ellen says seven thousand. Alec, Vanessa:
what do you reckon? Oh, the faces there! Yeah, yeah,
I'm not gonna challenge. Ellen, was that a guess? Yes...! You're going off sept-
and millennium there, presumably. Yeah, yeah. It's seven.
The answer was wrong. But that doesn't matter,
because no one called you on it. You were confident.
Alec, that's another bar gone. Vanessa, that's a bar gone. Well, the thing is...
the mil is the thousand. Aight. It sounded like a guess, except
it sounded like the right guess. That's what I was thinking, yeah.
Yeah.        Yeah. I thought— I thought
I might've been right, so... Alec, you are in a precarious position
already, I'm afraid. You can't let a wrong answer get past you,
but you also can't give a wrong challenge. Vanessa, how're you feeling
after the first game? I'm feeling good.
I'm very competitive. But then I also feel bad for
not being friendly at the same time. So you can never win(!) Would you like Flowers
or Body Parts? I will go with Body Parts. Alright, which body part is
the gland in the human body in which insulin is produced? That would be the pancreas. Vanessa says pancreas. Alec, Ellen:
how do you feel about that? I have a feeling...
that that... it is right. I'm not a massive person who knows
loads about endocrinology, but... I just know the word
"endocrinology" is related to it. Yeah, but you do know
the word "endocrinology". Yeah, and I'm pretty sure
that's right too. Alright.
That's only 'cause I got another endocrinology problem
that I have! No challenges, and Vanessa,
that is the correct answer. Congratulations,
you stick around on two bars. But of course, if it was wrong
and they haven't challenged, Alec would be out now,
so... Alec. You cannot lose this bar of signal
if you give the right answer. Good luck to you.
Would you like... Chinese Food or
Formula One Grands Prix? Uh, Chinese Food, please.
Alright. Which Chinese food translates literally
from Cantonese as "touch-heart"? Probably dumplings. Alec says dumplings. Ellen, Vanessa:
do you want to challenge? You're both in a position where
you can let the answer pass by. Particularly you, Ellen,
but also, you could take him out. I don't know the Cantonese
for dumplings, so that's the thing. And I don't know any Cantonese
anyway, so... I'm not across any Cantonese
either, unfortunately. Dumpling...
so here's the thing. Is "dumpling" even
a Cantonese word, right? Because you have, like,
dim sum and yum cha and, like, these other words
that are Chinese. But like, "dumpling", do Chinese words
have an -ing at the end? Well, I do know
what the word is in Mandarin. It's jiaozi.
Hmm, do we believe that, Ellen? Challenge or don't.
I'm going to ask for a call or not. It's up to you, Ellen.
I don't know. I don't know. There's no challenge there.
Alec, did you know that answer? Truthfully, no. But I—But jiaozi is actually
what it is in Mandarin. I do know that. Alec, the answer was wrong. Ah, yes.
Ohh! But that doesn't matter,
because they didn't call you on it. They could've knocked you out. Instead, you got a wrong answer
past both of them. Ellen, you're down to two bars.
Vanessa, you're down to one. Oh no! It was dim sum.
It was dim sum. It's a style of different bites.
Dumplings is one of that. But the translation of "dumpling"
is not "touch-heart". You were in the right area, but literally:
dim sum, touch-heart. And Ellen,
it is your question. Would you like Nationalities
or Famous Novels? Ooh. Let's go... Nationalities. Alright, what nationality was
the explorer Vasco da Gama, who discovered a route
to India by sea? Uh... Vasco da Gama...
I believe Portuguese. Ellen says Portuguese.
Now... Alec, Vanessa:
you have a decision to make. You're both on one. If she gets a wrong answer past both of you,
you two go to a tiebreak. But a correct challenge would knock
Ellen down to one. What do you want to do? Alec, where's your head at?
In the clouds. Literally(!) Um, truthfully,
I don't know enough about that sort of history
to give a reasonable answer. But you know what,
I'm just gonna challenge it, because if I don't...
I'll be gone anyway. Alec has challenged.
Ellen, was that a guess? It sounded like a guess.
Was it? It was a guess, yes. But there's only, like, three or four
countries to choose from. I think he could've been Portuguese.
And that's why I wasn't really sure. And he was Portuguese.
It was a very, very good guess! I deserve that
for how the first round went. Alec, congratulations
on making it this far, but that is your last
bar of signal gone. You've been disconnected.
Thank you very much for playing. Good night! Ellen, Vanessa:
you are through to the last head-to-head to the Grand Final. Very best of luck, we will see you
after this commercial break. Players, congratulations.
You have made it to the final round
of the Champion of Champions. One of you will be getting disconnected, but the other will have defeated
eight other players to make it to the end. So, very best of luck
to both of you. I realise that wishing
best of luck to both of you does absolutely nothing at all. I'm very nervous.
I'm so nervous! Imagine if you were playing
for money or something. How nervous you would be!
I know! I'd be hopeless! Ellen, you struck the killing blow there,
so you're gonna be going first. You both know how it works.
We're looking for things in a category. Challenge if you think
there's a wrong answer. There is no penalty for letting
a wrong answer slip past you here, other than it makes your job harder. Ellen, we are looking for the 100
most followed individuals on Twitter. So, just to clarify that, we're looking
for the hundred individuals whose dedicated Twitter accounts
have the most followers. So, no brands, no abstract concepts. We just need their usual names.
We don't need their usernames. Barack Obama. Ellen says Barack Obama.
Vanessa? Donald Trump. Donald Trump.
We're starting with our presidents. That is a sceptical face.
Challenge... Alright, straight away
 Ellen? Lin-Manuel Miranda. Lin-Manuel Miranda.
Vanessa? I mean, yes: Barack Obama,
Donald Trump, both good answers. Why did you go for Lin-Manuel? I-I think 'cause of
the political thing in Hamilton. But, um... I follow him. I don't really look at
follower numbers a lot. He gets a lot of engagement,
and that kind of gives me an idea of how many followers
he would probably have. I wouldn't be surprised
if he was on the 100 list. I just thought, there's, like,
so many other people that would probably have
more followers than him. So, that is a formal challenge
from Vanessa. I'll tell you this: Barack Obama,
Donald Trump, both good answers. Lin-Manuel Miranda...
not on the list. Ellen, that was a wrong answer.
Vanessa, that was a correct challenge. Ellen, you're down to one bar. I should've said a Kardashian! You should!
They're all on there! They're all on there.
It's an endless pit of names! Follower numbers and talent don't have
the strongest relationship sometimes. Bill Gates is on there.
Ellen DeGeneres, Ed Sheeran, Khloé, Kim,
and Kourtney Kardashian, and Kanye West as well
would've been on there. Katy Perry, LeBron James,
not Lin-Manuel Miranda. Unlucky, but there's still a chance. Vanessa, you're kicking off this list. And we are looking for
Best Picture Oscar winners. So, this is any film that has won
the award for Best Picture or equivalent, if it was called
something else in that year. We are looking for the award
for the best film. Vanessa, it's you to start.
Okay. I'm gonna start with Green Book. Vanessa says Green Book.
Ellen? The Shape of Water. Spotlight. Sorry, you are the definition
of a side-eye emoji at that moment. Like, that was... I'm sorry, I was just thinking! That was this incredibly sceptical look.
That was wonderful! Titanic. Titanic, says Ellen.
A nod from Vanessa. La La Land. La La Land.
Challenge. Ooh! That was quick. Ellen, why do you challenge? They didn't win Best Picture. They were mistakenly
given Best Picture, and then it went to Moonlight,
I believe, which is why I'm a bit confused
about Spotlight. I think that might also have been
a fake one. But yeah,
it wasn't La La Land. I'm pretty sure
Spotlight is right, I-I think. But I can't remember the outcome
of La La Land and Moonlight. I think it could've been
the other way around. Spotlight is correct. Titanic, Green Book, Shape of Water,
all correct. Ellen, your memory
of that Oscar ceremony... ..is correct. Yes!
Damn it! You were correct to challenge.
Vanessa, it did go to Moonlight. It wasn't La La Land,
so that's a bar away from you. And the Champion of Champions
comes down to the final list. Wow... I watched that one live, and my jaw hit the floor
when that happened! We are looking for
the 100 most valuable brands. So, these are corporate or product brands
with the highest revenue, before interest and taxes,
according to Forbes in 2019. They do have to have
some sort of presence in the US. So this excludes
Vodafone and Alibaba. But other than that, it's pretty much
anything you're gonna recognize. Ellen, we're gonna start with you.
Good luck. Apple. Ellen says Apple.
Vanessa? Google. Vanessa replies with Google.
Ellen? Microsoft. Microsoft.
We're sticking with technology. I can't imagine why,
given our various specialties(!) Vanessa? Amazon. Ellen? Activision Blizzard. Activision Blizzard, says Ellen.
Vanessa? Facebook. Facebook. Twitter.
Twitter. We are very much sticking
in technology here, aren't we? Sorry, the look of concentration. I know I keep pointing this out,
but it's wonderful! Coca-Cola. Coca-Cola.
Pepsi. An immediate reply
with Pepsi! Not even a thought of
challenging Coca-Cola there. Just like, "Yep, no, that's fair."
N-Yeah. Yeah. Vanessa? Nike. Nike. This is basically, "How much
consumerism can you remember?" Ellen? Adidas [ah-dee-das or ə-dee-dəs],
depending on how you want to pronounce it. I would accept either pronunciation. Adidas [ə-dee-dəs or ah-dee-das],
says Ellen. Vanessa? Chevron. Ford. I can't help but point out... that Vanessa keeps changing the topic,
and Ellen just keeps batting it back! It's her strategy! It's a solid strategy.
Vanessa? Walmart. Walmart.
I was gonna go for that one. Rockstar. Rockstar, says Ellen. Challenge. Challenging on—
I was resisting challenging. But I have never even heard
of Rockstar. Now, Rockstar are the video game company
that does Grand Theft Auto V, among quite a lot of other games... and there are a lot of people
that pay for that game. I'll tell you this much: between you,
you hit the top six on the board. Apple, Google, Microsoft,
Amazon, Facebook, Coca-Cola, top six between you. Pepsi, Nike, Adidas,
Ford, Walmart, all good. Activision... not on the list. Twitter, not on the list.
Ooh. Chevron, also not on the list. They're a big oil company.
They're not the big oil companies. So...Rockstar. If Rockstar is on the list, if Grand Theft Auto V
and all their others are big enough... ..Ellen, you've won. If they're not on the list...
Vanessa, you've won. Rockstar...is not on the list. Vanessa, you were
absolutely right to challenge! Rockstar are owned by Take-Two.
They're not top 100. Unfortunately, video game companies
haven't made it up there yet. I don't know if there are any on the list.
There's a lot. Could've had Budweiser.
Could've had American Express. Bank of America, Hyundai,
Kellogg's, Louis Vuitton, Red Bull, T-Mobile, they're all up there,
but Rockstar are not. Ellen, that is your last
bar of signal away. Thank you very much for playing.
It was so close, but... ..you've been disconnected. Thank you very much
for being part of it. Vanessa, that is game, set, match! It is all yours.
You are Champion of Champions! Congratulations,
you get the twenty seconds at the end. Plug your stuff again
if you want to. That's been our show.
That's been Disconnected. Thank you very much for watching.
Good night! I run a YouTube channel
called BrainCraft. youtube.com/braincraft.
Please go and subscribe. I have lots of fun videos about
psychology and neuroscience. I'm also on Instagram and Twitter as
@NessyHill, N-E-S-S-Y-H-I-L-L. I post lots of fun stuff there too!
Thank you for watching! 