“Hi-diddly-ho,
neighbor! Looks like you got
a spaceship in your-- Who are you?” Rick and Morty literally
killed America’s long-reigning
favorite TV family. “You killed the entire
Simpsons, Morty! They're a beloved fa--
(belches) mily, Morty!” In this 2015 couch gag --
which Simpsons co-creator Matt Groening, called
“the most ambitious and lengthy couch
gag that we'd done” Rick plans to use
the Simpsons’ liquified remains
to recreate them. “Okay, I want you to
take that vial of Simpsons' goo and this picture
to this address. They'll make us
new Simpsons.” What’s so self-aware
about this joke is that the Smiths are the
Simpsons of our era. They’re the new
“bad role model” suburban family --
in a show that treats nothing as off-limits
to its transgressive, Easter-egg-packed
comedy. Even though the Simpsons
is still turning out quality comedy after all
these years, it’s gradually lost
its edgy feeling, and has started to
be seen as part of the “establishment.” "Something that started
decades ago and was applauded is now offensive
and politically incorrect. What can you do?" So here’s our take on how
Rick and Morty updates the irreverent cartoon-sitcom
family unit for a new generation, and comparing the shows
reveals how much our culture has changed since the
Simpsons first aired in 1989. as a part of Raid’s
“New Player Program”. In an era of wholesome,
sentimental family sitcoms like Full House, Family
Matters and Growing Pains, The Simpsons began as
the subversive, in-your-face, dysfunctional family that
Rick and Morty is today. Campaigning in 1992,
George H. W. Bush promised: to make American families
a lot more like the Waltons and a lot less like
the Simpsons” referencing the 1971-81 series
about a rural Virginia family during the Great Depression “Goodnight everyone”
“Goodnight Mama” “Goodnight Daddy”
“Goodnight children” “Goodnight Daddy” The Simpsons was quick
with their biting reply: “Hey! We’re just
like the Waltons. We’re praying for an end
to the Depression, too.” Ultimately, though, what
Bush missed is that The Simpsons affirms
the importance of family. “Fathering children is
the best part of my day. I'd do anything
for Bart and Lisa.” In the essay “At Home
With the Simpsons,” Professor Paul Cantor of
the University of Virginia argues that the show
“ends up celebrating the nuclear family
as an institution" As Cantor pointed out,
the Simpsons even mirrored the average 2.2
kids per household, with baby Maggie, who never
grows up, being the .2. When the county suspects
Homer and Marge of negligence and
takes their children. This just serves to underline
how deeply the Simpsons do love each other in
their own wacky way. “Remember how Mom
used to microwave our underwear on cold days?” “Or the way Dad used
to call the radio station with fake traffic tips?” [Laughing] The episode’s heartwarming
message is that, while Homer and Marge may not
be perfect parents, “But everything's just
too weird here.” “I know! They put
honey on pancakes instead of maple syrup.” “And they read Newsweek
instead of nothing!” They make up for it with
genuine affection and a home environment where
kids can be themselves. “Kids! We're good
parents now! Get your asses
out here!” “We missed
you so much!” And viewers could relate. The idealized 1950s
family sitcom, and aspirational-role-model
TV families that followed in their footsteps, never
reflected most people’s reality. So even if viewers didn’t
have a son who was quite this much of a trouble-maker
or a father who was this much of a screw-up, they
could see themselves in these people who
were often a mess, but still came together
as a family in ways that counted. “I wanted to surprise
you for Christmas.” “Oh, sweetie, this is the best
present a mother could get!” [Kissing noises] “I love you so much.” Fast-forward to now, and
Rick and Morty also foregrounds the American
family, warts and all. What’s different, though,
is that Rick and Morty doesn’t necessarily agree
that family is automatically a good thing. “It’s him or me.” The show paints
family connection as potentially
dangerous, emphasizing that your
nearest and dearest can hold a perverse,
toxic power over you. “I wanted you to
have a normal life. That's something that you
can't have when Rick shows up. Everything real turns fake,
everything right is wrong.” One of the creators,
Dan Harmon, said, for him, the center
of this story is Beth, a middle-aged woman
who was scarred by her father abandoning
her as a kid. “For the rest of your lives,
no matter how much it hurts you, no matter
how much it destroys our children's futures,
we're gonna do whatever Rick wants, whenever
he wants?” “Yes.”
“WHY?!” “Because I don't want
him to leave again, you dumb asshole!!” According to Harmon,
the reason no one objects that mad-scientist
Grandpa takes their young son out of school to drag him
on life-threatening adventures, “Is because Jerry is terrified
that Beth will leave him and Beth is terrified
that Rick will leave her.” “Please don't
leave me again” So what holds this family
together is a toxic chain of fear. And this reflects
that for many people, family might not be a
saving grace, but a burden. The Smiths are also dealing
with heavy problems. In The Simpsons,
Homer’s drinking is written off as
borderline “normal”. “This is tough, need
refreshment. Ahh, good old
trustworthy beer.” Rick & Morty doesn’t
mask or minimize issues like alcoholism, depression,
marital struggles, and conflict with in-laws. And this makes it relatable
to real families facing issues that can’t just be shrugged
off from week to week. “You have the single worst
marriage I've ever witnessed. It shouldn't exist!” The Smiths even grapple
with insecurity about whether they’re
a “real family,” “We’re a real
family now” The joke at the end
of the couch gag is that Rick’s quick-fix actually
turned the Simpsons into horribly misshapen mutants. “Hey, Morty, little tip.
(belches) Don't clean DNA vials with your spit!” Likewise in Rick and Morty,
these family members feel like they're misshapen
on the inside. “Your relationship with
your father is psychotic.” “Oh, listen to you relish
the idea that my genius father is a bad person.” This focus on the individual
within the family leads to a show that’s a lot
more interested in character development. Rick and Morty is always
balancing a Simpsons-esque “reset button” feel with
characters who do change . The new Homer
Simpson is Jerry Smith. This rather incompetent,
dim-witted patriarch is an average Joe who’s happy
in his haze of obliviousness. But while Homer is largely
let off the hook for his moronic ineptitude,
on Rick and Morty the culture has
turned against Jerry. “Look, I'm a closeted racist,
and I'm sexist and selfish, and I dragged us
all into my sexist, racist bad things
because I'm stupid.” “Thank you.” “Now you’re gonna
help me. Right?” “She just did.”
“Yeah” Homer’s catchphrase “D’oh!”
is framed as lovable. Jerry’s mediocrity is treated as
a problem that evokes contempt. “Why am I so mediocre?” Most tellingly, Homer is the
clear head of his household and if you had to pick one,
the main character of the show. But Jerry is mostly losing
control of his family to his father-in-law, and he’s not the
protagonist of Rick and Morty. While our culture has turned
against the Man-child, the update to Bart in Morty
suggests today there’s a new faith in the young
man’s hidden potential. Devilish little Bart is a
lovably wicked manifestation of the saying
"boys will be boys." “Eat My Shorts.” Morty is a hapless,
hormonal kid who, to his own surprise,
proves very competent and emotionally
mature over time. “I'll disarm the drunkenly-
improvised neutrino bomb. There's a 40 percent
chance it's a dud, but y-you should
still stay back” “Morty, how many of these--”
“Too many, Rick! Too many!” So rather than painting
mischievous impulses as natural and inevitable, it's showing boys as raw
matter to be shaped by their role models,
implying that we can make better
men for the future. The grandpa in The Simpsons
is woefully marginalized and ignored by the family. “Hey, my dad was lousy
and I didn't sue him. I just dumped him in the
cheapest home I could find” The character serves as
a commentary on how frequently elders aren’t
respected in our culture -- as well as on how dealing
with an aging family member can be extremely trying. In Rick and Morty, however,
the elder Rick is front and center, more ‘head of household’
than Jerry most of the time. “How is my son supposed
to pass his classes if you keep dragging him off for high-
concept Sci-Fi rigamarole?” And we can see some parallels
between Rick and Homer, both are drinking,
belching patriarchs who expect others to
make excuses for them and clean up after them. But in the Simpsons couch gag,
Rick appears to be disgusted by the taste of one of Homer’s
trademark doughnuts and he has to spike Homer’s
beer with his own alcohol. This gets at the fundamental
difference between them -- Rick is a lot less mainstream
and a lot more extreme. Homer puts the kids in
danger due to incompetence, but Rick puts Summer and
Morty in danger intentionally. This smart but reckless
patriarch may reflect new skepticism toward
older generations. “Ok Boomer” It's becoming clear to
young people that authority figures don’t
necessarily have their best interests or
well-being at heart. “Nine out of ten times, it's
a ship full of dead aliens and a bunch of free shit! “Whoa!” “One out of ten times,
it's a deadly trap, but I'm ready to
roll those dice.” Yet Rick also challenges
his family and pushes them to grow more
than couch potato Homer, “Think for yourselves.
Don't be sheep” reflecting how in our times, the head of the family is
responsible for stimulating everyone’s thought and
broadening their horizons, not just being a provider. Mother and housewife,
Marge is known for her trademark sound
that’s a perfect nonverbal expression of frustration. “Mmmm.” She’s constantly confronted
with her husband’s inadequacy. "Attention, Marge Simpson.
We've also arrested your older, balder, fatter son.” And the Simpsons
sometimes deals with her battles to feel
appreciated and respected by the family she single
handedly takes care of. But ultimately Marge finds
ways to be satisfied within this traditional
family structure. “I must admit, you really
do make a gal feel needed.” In Rick and Morty, Beth
is the primary breadwinner. Her intellectual superiority
over her frequently emasculated husband
is out in the open, “I'm smart. Why do you
think I'm a heart surgeon?” “Horse heart surgeon” and she holds the power because
Jerry is so scared of losing her. Marge gets fed up
with Homer many times, “Homer, I think you’d agree
that I’ve put up with a lot In this marriage.” but she genuinely loves him. “Do you know
why I married you?” “Because I knocked you up?”
“No, because I love you.” Meanwhile Beth doesn’t
start out loving her husband. “This isn't the woman
you married, Jerry. Because this
woman loves you.” And staying with her family
means stifling much of the potential her current
life doesn't allow her to realize. Lisa Simpson’s modern
counterpart is Summer. Lisa is her show’s
moral center and a classic overachiever. “Free Tibet!” While Summer comes
across as a pretty average teenage girl whose
main interests are boys and popularity. “This is my chance to gain
some footing with the cool kids.” This update to the sister
character mirrors the evolving discussion of how to
represent women onscreen, as the ideal shifts from
"strong" perfect female characters, to "flawed"
female characters. Underneath her less than
impressive demeanor, Summer gradually reveals
deep hidden potential and intelligence -- she’s the
Smith child who resembles her genius grandfather more. “Thanks kids, you
figured it out. Well-- Summer did.” So her aptitude reminds
us that a girly girl who doesn’t talk like a perfect
student can still be wicked smart. Interestingly, we see Rick
admiring himself after putting on Marge’s
necklace and then enjoying playing Lisa’s saxophone. So he feels some
sense of connection to the women
in this family, just as Harmon has said
he loves Beth more than any other character
on the show, and the centrality given
to this intelligent, not particularly nurturing
middle-aged woman’s psychology underlines that
we’re in a different time for female characters on screen
than the Simpsons was. Rick and Morty didn’t
“kill the Simpsons” because it was destroying
the traditional American family. As we’ve seen, the Simpsons
never really was that. It killed the Simpsons
the way that Oedipus kills his father, the way
that the next generation has to destroy the beloved
predecessor and take its throne. It’s killing its old role
model, with love. That’s why the couch gag
leaves us with an image of the Simpsons redrawn
to look more like Rick. The Simpsons seems
to welcome its successor. They even gave us
a visual nod to Rick’s beloved Szechuan sauce. "I want my mcnugget dipping
sauce szechuan sauce Morty" Even if Rick and Morty isn’t
a blanket endorsement of family, there is a love-centric
moral in this story, too. Rick has the freedom to
stay with this version of his family or run off to be with
any number of other versions, so this version of the family
relationship is formed by choice. "Are you going to stay?" "There's infinite
timelines, Morty. Why would I stay in
the one where I trashed the White House, became
an enemy of America and the lowest-status
character in my idiot family?" Beth likewise chooses to
double down on her family after she’s presented
with the option to leave and fulfill all her desires, “I don't know if I can do it.” “Then stay, and luxuriate
in a life you can finally know you've chosen.” In our world where
tradition is less of a mandate and the family
unit can look all kinds of ways, it’s liberating
to remember that love means deciding we
want to be there . “Look, there's no replacing
either of you without an amount of work that would
ultimately defeat the purpose.” The Simpsons is the
longest-running American sitcom and primetime
scripted series. And with its 70-episode
renewal after Season 3, Rick and Morty looks ready
to be the next staple reflecting modern family life for
a long time to come. “They’re they’re they’re
they’re a national treasure and you killed them.” 