So the mission for today, is
to create a nice cinematic image, with a very small camera. It's not the size of
the camera that matters, it's how you use it. Or something like that. 'Cause yeah you know if you want a cinematic image just sell your car and your soul and just buy
one of these and easy. But I kept thinking like how
do I make an image look even more cinematic, but at a
smaller size and even cheaper. I did some thinking and
this is what I came up with. It's censored right now, not because it's an inappropriate object but because I don't want you guys to know what it is yet, I kind
of want to show you guys some footage out of this set up here. In this mystery setup, fraction of the cost of the Canon EOS R. So you guys get to play the
guessing game and try to figure out what setup I'm using, but let's take it outside
and get some footage. This thing is gonna make it so I can get into some deep (bleep) and still get myself out, ha ha. (dramatic music) (engine revs) (dramatic music) So there you go what'd you guys
think of the footage so far? Not bad right? It actually looks kind of professional. I'll take it. So can the little mystery
camera take cinematic footage? Yes, check. How about some of the
convenient features for vloggers and YouTubers? First you need to get one
of these, a switch pot. I can't recommend this thing enough. And then a little ball head up here so you can actually angle the
camera in different directions or drop this little
sensor bar on top of it and a little hint I used
two different lenses for that sequence we shot. Most important part is this
microphone up here which is actually kind of bigger
than the camera itself But you gotta have it the sound quality out of this so much better. Anyways, I got to pick up
something from Steve's house so let's go. (leaf blower roars) - It works! - Oh ho, it works! We're borrowing this from Steve to take a thumbnail if you're a subscriber you probably have already seen it. But yeah, hopefully it works out. It's 220 miles per hour can
we blow it in Steve's face? Let's do it. (leaf blower roars) I think I've got some
chunky cheeks so I think it should be nice blah la la. - If this is anything
like when we punched him with the boxing gloves and his face shook, this should be epic. (leaf blower roars) Ah, you can't breathe. Let's see what this looks
like at 120 frames per second. All right, so here's the
thumbnail I have in mind. we're talking about laptops I can edit 8K. So you got a red camera here and we got our laptop here
and then we got blow dryer. - Hell yeah. (leaf blower roars) - All right, so we got some good shots but they're just not really registering that much that it's wind it just kind of looks like I'm making a goofy face. So we looked at that
classic photo of that guy sitting on a couch and what really sells it is his posture and his tie, so I got this shirt on
now, we got a tie on and we're gonna go for a take two. (leaf blower roars) Let's start putting this underneath and just go straight up. (leaf blower roars) Oh yeah, that's working huh? All right. - [Man] That's working huh? I think that one's it. I
think that's the way to do it. - All right, so let's wrap
this day up by going out and eating some wings. Our buddy Javi told us
that there's a spot here that has super spicy
wings so we're gonna see if we can handle it. Sam you feel confident about this? - [Sam] (laughs) Did you
forget who you're talking to? - Yeah, earlier we
didn't have a microphone on this rig but just to make this camera look even smaller we're just gonna completely strip it down no microphone because the issue with bringing a big old camera into a restaurant is they're gonna see and immediately kick you out so something this nice and compact should let us fly under that radar. So that evening we made
a couple of mistakes. One ordering the hottest
chicken on the menu which we ended up deeply
regretting the next morning, but of course we still stuck through it because we're hardcore like that. The second mistake I made was that I was shooting at a 150th of a shutter speed which is typically where I want to be for that frame rate. The lighting there was flickering
so you can kind of see it. They look like horizontal dark bars that kind of roll from
the top to the bottom. You can't really see it with your eyes but on camera obviously it shows up. Easy fix for that at least here in America is to switch the shutter
to one sixtieth of a second depending on the standards of your country's electrical current that could be different but generally when I see flicker like that I can set it to one sixtieth of a second and it will reduce it if not completely cut it out. And my final big mistake was taking off that external microphone. I should have just left it
on because the audio came out like crap. Are you a spicy food guy? - All good, if I'm gonna do it, I got it. - [Man] I think heard Abraham say-- - So external microphone's a must, especially in a crowded place like that, but overall the low-light
performance is excellent right? We're walking around at night and everything looks very clear and sharp, still not a crazy amount of grain. So overall I'd say this
is a very capable camera. One final test before I tell you guys which camera this is is the
auto focus, which is important, because notice how blurry
that background is, right? So you need some pretty good
auto focus to stay up with me ha and I'm sharp. See that's actually pretty good and it does also have a flip screen so I can see myself so it does check off a lot of the boxes that vloggers want. Peter are you ready for the answer? Okay, let's go. And the answer is Canon M6 Mark II. Now this might not come as
a surprise to many of you because I just made a video about it and how it's surprisingly capable for its price point and size. But I'm actually more excited
about the lens that's on here. These are brand new lenses from Sigma and they've been dominating lately. Like these Sigma art lenses
that I bought, loving these. I also bought the Sigma 30
millimeter for my Sony A6400 and finally they're rolling out lenses for the Canon EF-M line
which is greatly needed because this EF-M line has
needed some solid lenses and here they are. Now this is an APS-C size sensor, so we are talking about
a crop of about 1.6 X but the beauty of having smaller sensors is that you can make the lens
a little bit more capable at a more compact size. So this is a 16 millimeter
F/1.4 and since this does have a crop sensor it's closer
to a 24 millimeter F/1.4 but if you look at a
full-frame version of this lens it's way bigger and way more expensive. And that's across the board too, here's the other lens I was using. This is a 56 millimeter F/1.4
so this converts into a nice slightly telephoto or
a great portrait lens. So even if you have a
smaller sensor like an APS-C that's in this camera you
can actually kind of use it to your advantage if you utilize the lenses that are out there and these are a perfect example. This isn't sponsored by Sigma by the way, I think they just did a
killer job making lenses that are very capable
specifically for smaller size sensors so I love that. I can't really do the
math in my head right now but this camera body and then this lens and then this tighter lens that's how much the total is opposed to something like this EOS R which we do get that full frame but here's how much it is for the body and this lens actually on here right now is I think more than the camera body itself so this right here a total right oh so expensive. So if you have that kind
of budget yeah go for it, I mean I love this camera but just because you can afford the body on this remember that there's a lot more to come when it comes to lenses so considering that there's these high-quality Sigma lenses for this EF-M mount
makes this Canon camera a lot more attractive. I mean
you guys saw the footage, so you can decide for
yourself but I'm impressed. If you see my recent review
about this camera you know that it actually doesn't shoot
24 frames per second yet. It is supposed to be coming in a firmware update in 2020 so hopefully we see that rolling out in the next few months so that would be awesome but currently this video is made in 25 frames per second. I can switch this camera into PAL mode and get 25 frames per second which looks very, very similar to 24, it's just kind of annoying
because it's like a little technical limitation it's just kind of a inconvenience when I shoot everything in 24 and this camera shoots 25, but again this is a
temporary issue that Canon promises to fix and the other big issue is when you put a microphone up here you can't really see yourself with the monitor because it is a flip up screen instead of a flip out screen. But a company called SmallRig Digits announced that they are releasing a little bracket which will make the hot shoe located over here, it will, technically a cold shoe if it doesn't have electronic components and it's called a cold shoe but you know we're just using it to hold this microphone here in place so it will hold the microphone like that so you can still use your flip screen and this is generally what your vlog
setup would look like. Anyways let's wrap this up
by reading a few comments from my last video. Let's go. Top comment was from Connor. Google left the chat. So for those of you who
haven't seen it my overall conclusion was that the video camera is very just like Dan says I would have to say meh on the quality it's kind of one of the awkward situations to get into is like I really appreciate that Google is willing to send me a phone for free, but as a filmmaker if
I don't like the video quality out of the phone I just I kind of have to say it but when I started this YouTube channel I told myself no matter what happens I'm going to keep honesty as priority number one. That is gonna be more
important than the number of views, the number of
subscribers, the money, all that so whenever companies are like hey we'll give you money to say good things about our product I always have to push back a little bit and say ooh, my opinions aren't for sale just out of curiosity how much
money are we talking about? Nick says didn't you say last
time you were taking the Jeep to a professional next time.
Yeah that's one of those things that like I'm not a professional mechanic, but there's something just satisfying about taking a wrench and
just doing this motion, it's very validating
like I feel really tough doing it I kind of like it. Oh and I almost forgot
this is a sponsored video so give away GoPro Hero7 black coming out to one of you guys. All you got to do is
drop a comment down below and yes this is a
hand-me-down this is the Hero7 black so not the brand new shiny eight but I'm not even sure if
I'm gonna get the eight. Should I get it? Is it much? I have to do a
little bit of research on that. (mellow music) 