1st rate teacher (Who is this teacher
who made everyone go crazy?!) (But they won't go easy on her) She's crying Are you tired? No (What fate awaits Weeekly..?) (At some place on some day on May in 2020) Everyone wake up It's not me 1, 2, 3 Weeekly, you guys, PlayM Hard Training Team
sent us a special teacher for us Who could he or she be? Since I was told a teacher
will be coming, I thought of Baek Jongwon Ms. Park and Ms. Yoon,
please come in. (Nervous) Why do I feel so nervous? I think I saw their silhouettes I can't look Ms. Park, Ms. Yoon (Who are the instructors
who surprised Weeekly?) (Apink is on the scene) (PARK CHORONG Apink/Kpop idol for 10 years
YOON BOMI Apink/PlayM) Hello (She means she never expected them) Is this a dream? PlayM Hard Training Team told us PlayM has a new Kpop girl group 2, 3, hi! We are Weeekly We'll show you what we've prepared Everyone seemed a bit tense up
in front of sunbaenims (First performance in front of Apink) (IZ*ONE FIESTA) ((Intense)) ((Trying hard)) I was a bit surprised Honestly (Weeekly awaits their evaluation) (They can't hide their nervousness..) (Dolphin applause) So pretty Pretty good, huh? They are so sweet and cute,
I was shocked They are ready for the stage right now They are so good already They will beast every performance
in the future (Touched) But these days the ending is important It's called the ending fairy, right? Why don't you each practice being that? Actually, before we started,
we had planned our order of performance Can SOOJIN go first? Since I'm the leader of my group, I couldn't help
but keep looking at the leader of that group (Ending fairy test got started..) (SOOJIN, we believe in you) I tried to do better with my facial expression (Glare) I was so nervous my face got stiff It didn't move the way I wanted it to It would be okay if you relax a bit more Don't do this, but just be natural People prefer that much more these days Come on over sometime (Wow no wonder she is the leader of Weeekly) Next up is SOEUN (SOEUN does her job as the ending fairy) (This person watches her very carefully) Smile with your eyes,
smile with your eyes (Loving it) Smile with your eyes She can smile whenever she wants to (Hehe) (Unsuccessful ending fairies.zip) (Eyes are shaking) (1) Feeling shy staring at the camera) (Flap) (2) Blew too hard with her nose) (Crack, crack) ( ) (3) She is too much like a baby deer) (Awkward) JAEHEE's turn Okay She was a child actress,
I bet she will do a good job (Will JAEHEE do a good job
as an ending fairy?) (Winking) (They love it) Her wink definitely made
it look much prettier Not everyone but only
a few people should do it though (Too much winking may
make the viewer feel awkward) SOEUN's smiling with her eyes
and JAEHEE's wink  I'll be the ending fairy with smiley eyes (Me too) There is another skill you must possess It's feeling and expressiveness How you feel and express your feeling
is important on stage as well as in variety shows So let me show you how it's done (What's that?) Are you allowed to touch that? I can't touch it (How good is Apink
at expressing how they feel?) Should I hit it once? Hit it? (Touched it) (Sunbaenim) (YOON BOMI, the living legend for variety shows) (An expressiveness that
steals people's attention) Will I die if I hit it or no? BOMI No, it was fine We were pretending We don't get scared Grapes? Grapes? It's similar It is a fruit CHORONG, let's touch it then (Falling..) (Oh no) (Sunbaenim concluded it with a perfect ending) This is how you do it, guys (The end of a perfect demonstration
for how to act in variety shows) I've never had anything 
that tough before though I don't think so They should have given us something tougher (So we got something for you) (MONDAY&SOOJIN's item 
put everyone in shock) You got to get this If you don't get this,
I'll go home (Really?) (You must get this no matter what) What do I do? I may not get what it is My heart Okay, now turn around As soon as I turned around
I felt like my brain disappeared First off, it's not alive, it's not alive It's alive What? You can say it is alive I don't want to hurt it (MONDAY stoke its philtrum) Oh oh Oh? (MONDAY stroke the back of the head) Oh oh oh It's in pain (Oh no) It's one of our favorite things in the world Right, right (PANDA love) (MONDAY got the hint! What's the answer?!) Pink Panda stick? (Correct~~!!!) (I'm glad.. you got it right..) How did you know
it was a Panda stick? Since I was in elementary school,
I was a Pink Panda I really was a Pink Panda I'm sorry I poked your eye (A successful Panda) Awesome (The members try hard
to make it entertaining) That's harsh This one is a bit tough They brought something that bites It won't move, right? You can put one hand in at a time (No hesitating at all) What's this? (These youngsters born in 2002 are brave) These guys are brave Tapioca balls (You can't get it right so soon..) That's bad for variety shows!!! What should we do? (We will just edit it out) JIYOON and SOEUN, 
it's good to be honest like that But since this is for a show, could you 
dip your hand in for 5 minutes? I realized this is for a variety show (My bad) A Kpop idol needs to be quick
and handle diverse situations (So here it comes) It's a dance ceremony (Lesson.3 Shine in variety shows
with witty and clever dance moves!) I was a bit flustered I didn't know what to do (An energetic song for the first round) I have a feeling JIHAN will be good at this (Go JIHAN let's go) (She's on fire) (Gasp) (Turn it around) Good, good (Energetic foot movement) (On fire with passion!!!) Good, good (The youngest member, ZOA's time) Wave (Sexy) (Someone born in 2005 dancing
to the song released in 2003,,,) (Save me) (ZOA coming over to win her heart) ([PARK CHORONG] got invited to the ceremony) ((CHORONG,,,)) (PlayM's prettiest members, looking awesome) ((Embarrassed)) (CHORONG,,) (Wait, this song is?!) Awesome (High hopes) (SOOJIN.. You can do great, right..?) (High hopes) Oh my goodness (Weeekly's leader!! LEE SOOJIN's coming~!) (The highlight of the chorus part, start) (A collaboration that makes
their hearts throb) (Weeekly's LEE SOOJIN) (Apink's YOON BOMI) (Look at this collaboration) BOMI got more excited for the dance I shouldn't have danced, right? She got excited along with them (Having fun with Dumhdurum) I have a feeling JIYOON
will be a star at variety shows (Are you ready to have fun?) (Here I come!!) (SHIN JIYOON, fun generator, 
on full performance mode!!) (Apink, surprised by the fun generator) (Brilliant and unparalleled foot steps) (I'm taking the center stage~) (Very impressed) (I can go anywhere where 
there is a stage and beats) (Nothing can stop,,) (me) (I.. destroyed that performance..) (Thumbs up) I guessed it right She crushed that stage (A variety show rising star) Lastly, I wanted to make a big impression
right from the start (So enthusiastic) (Say no to ordinary!!) (Here comes MONDAY's special attack) (AMOR FATI) (Shake it, shake it) MONDAY is great indeed She turned the stage upside down The best sunbae (MONDAY'S dance ceremony
was fancy and passionate) (This is the scene of Amor "Party") (Weeekly got very exhausted now) Are you exhausted? No (Turn it around) Let's go (We can't just end it like this~~) ((Having fun)) (For a dance ceremony, 
all you need is enthusiasm:)) Are you exhausted? No (Someone stop her) MONDAY was standing calm and looking shy Then, she suddenly came forward I could tell she's ambitious (Ambition) They are better than I expected They are better than us Million points for the spirit (~Good job, Weeekly..~) A blessing? It was the best lesson that 
only we could have received Thank you so much for the fun, happy,
and useful class With what we learned today in mind, we will try our best to become
the best Kpop idol Thank you Actually, we didn't really 
come to teach anything but to support you guys We actually learn more ourselves 
from experiences like this, right? I got reminded a lot
of when we debuted We wished we could help as much as possible We hope to become better sunbaes The most important thing is
for the teammates to get along well Singing and other things are 
important of course You need to continue for a long time Most people think that Kpop idols
do not stay together for long Same goes for us We work hard to make sure
we can continue on for a long time I hope your group is loved 
by others for a long time Thank you Congratulations on your debut I'll enjoy your song when it comes out I'll watch the music video every day I'll watch the ending fairy Thank you Thank you (Next episode) (They cried) (They cracked up) (Their eyes opened up wide) (At Weeekly's final monthly review
before debut) (What happened..?!) Oh my goodness 