“Prison is an opportunity. We get people when
they’re at their lowest point.” To err is human, but exactly
how you go wrong may be what defines the
specific human you are. For seven seasons,
Orange is the New Black explored character through
a diverse group of women who were paying for
the errors of their ways. And for most major characters,
the final season zeroed in on a moral each woman had learned
or a broader theme she represented. “I want to apologize
for a lot of things.” Here’s our take on the ending of
Orange is the New Black, character by character,
and what the series taught us about continuing on when life
doesn’t turn out the way you hoped. “Even after you serve your time,
they still find ways to punish you.” to download Dashlane and get
a free 30-day premium trial. In the end, Piper Chapman’s
story was about accepting what’s not gone according to plan. Before she went to prison,
Piper’s life looked perfect. “Promise me you’re not
watching Mad Men without me.” The starting premise of
Orange Is the New Black was essentially that this person
really didn’t belong in Litchfield. “What’d you do?” “I read that you’re
not supposed to ask that.” “You read that? What,
you studied for prison?” Seven seasons later,
Piper is at last out of prison, and her life trying to make ends meet
as an ex-con is anything but perfect. “I am still paying my debt.” She grapples with
an unbridgeable distance between her and others
of her socioeconomic class. That distance is this experience
she’s had, of being behind bars. It’s not only that her peers can’t
fathom it and view her as tainted. “The other ladies left, because
they heard the, um, former-felon thing.” It’s also that this chapter
fundamentally changed Piper. “I’m scared that I’m not myself
in here, and I’m scared that I am.” Thanks to her privileged obliviousness
and lack of self-understanding, “It was hardly a mansion.” “How many bathrooms?” “Um, four? Or five. There was..
a half-bath off the playroom.” Piper suffered from what Vox’s Emily VanderWerff
called “likability issues.” “When you say that everybody hates me,
you’re being a little hyperbolic, right?” Even the actress who played her,
Taylor Schilling, had problems with Piper. She said that while
Breaking Bad’s Walter White “always had a reason,”
even if he did horrific things, “Piper’s behavior oftentimes
feels groundless.” “Sisters, we may be incarcerated,
but our panties will travel the world.” By the end, though, Piper did
grow into a relatable character. She became a more grounded,
feeling human being, thanks to what she suffered. Now, when she looks at the self-involved, upper-middle-class
hippie types around her, she sees the person she might still be if not for prison. She’s more than that now. “I went to prison, and I met
parts of myself lurking inside of me that I didn’t even know were in there.” And that’s because
her life has been imperfect -- because she went astray from her plan. Prison wasn’t the detour from
her real life -- it was her real life. “Four percent of my life. But it was enough to change... ABSOLUTELY everything.” The main thing pre-Litchfield
Piper lacked was deeper perspective of the world
and how she fit into it. “Oh, my God, Larry,
by the time I get out, there’ll have been, like,
three new generations of iPhones.” And since Piper is
ultimately a stand-in for us, the audience entering
this alien environment, the message is that
we too are better people for having spent time
empathizing with these women and processing the obstacles
life has thrown at them. “Maybe this was the best thing
that ever happened to you, because now you can never
be nice and normal again.” Over the seasons Piper gave up
much of her primacy to let more marginalized
characters take the focus. Show creator Jenji Kohan called Piper
a “Trojan horse” who got viewers interested, before the writers shifted to putting
black and Latina women center stage. “You can take this yuppie white girl,
and follow her in, and through her -- it’s like a gateway drug -- you can tell
all these other stories as well.” And even while the final season
uses Piper to show how hard it is to get back on your feet
after serving time, “I didn’t realize that early release
meant I was responsible for all of my monitoring and testing fees.” the show takes pains to point out that she has it less hard
than almost every other ex-con. “I got women coming in here, four kids,
no support, working three jobs!” Ultimately she does have
a network to fall back on. “I don't know why you won’t
just ask Dad to help you out.” She asks her dad for help,
and everything turns out alright. As the story wraps up, Piper grapples with the decision
that will shape her future: should she hold onto Alex,
or leave this person behind? Over the seasons,
Orange is the New Black has framed this relationship
in a variety of lights: as a toxic tale of
the negative influences that pull people into a life of crime, as a love story thwarted by striving to fit a middle-class
heteronormative ideal, and finally, as a real love that’s nonetheless stuck
in an unhealthy, vicious cycle. “I don’t like Alex. She put you in prison. She continues to make you suffer.” To seemingly everyone but Piper,
it’s obvious that Alex isn’t good for her, while this awesome new woman
she’s met, Zelda, is a far better catch. “She’s on her way, and she likes you. And all you can think about is Alex.” Piper’s ex-fiancé Larry offers
the cynical interpretation that Piper is drawn to Alex out of
a self-destructive desire to feel interesting and special. “Alex was your ticket to special.” It’s safe to say many viewers
were agreeing with these critiques, and willing Piper to make the
logical and constructive choice of leaving Alex behind for this person
who appears to be “better.” Yet nobody else can tell you
what’s true in your heart. And casting out everything that’s
damaged in your life or yourself, to admit only the shiny and new,
is like cutting off your own limb. “We met... and I grew another limb. And it’s like she’s a part of my body.” If Piper ditched Alex when it got hard,
this would be the same as everyone giving up on her
because she’s been to prison and her life is a lot messier now. Orange is the New Black is about why we must care about people
that society writes off as lost causes. We can’t go around discarding people
the second they no longer spark joy. “Does she spark joy?” “Are you asking to Marie-Kondo my wife?” Piper chooses instead
to do the hard work of rehabilitating a love that has problems. She ends the series with
talk of becoming clean. “Clean living. A clean conscience.” Interestingly, these final lines
bring to mind our culture’s most beloved prison movie ever (which is still number one
in the IMDB Top 250), Shawshank Redemption. “Andy Dufresne, who crawled
through a river of shit and came out clean on the other side.” The image of purification
is a natural stand-in for the process of reflecting on
and repenting for one’s crimes. But here, becoming clean takes on the meaning of giving others,
and ourselves, another chance. “And a clean slate.” Piper embodies the truth that embracing our hardship --
finding a way through it -- can make us wiser, kinder,
and more fulfilled human beings. As Piper Chapman became
less protagonist and more framing device, over the seasons
another protagonist emerged: Tasha Jefferson -- Taystee -- the true heart and soul of
Orange is the New Black “You a full-blown Slytherin. And I’m a lion-hearted Gryffindor
with the intelligence of a Ravenclaw.” Taystee’s story is the inverse of Piper’s. Whereas Piper ends her story
back on her feet (thanks to a little help from her friends,
and a job from her dad), when Taystee gets out of prison, she lacks any kind of support network
or viable means of income besides crime, “I ain’t selling drugs no more. If I
get popped, they gonna send me back.” “It’s that or the street.” so she ends up back inside. “I ain’t got no place to stay. I was sleeping on the floor of
my second cousin’s apartment like a dog. Everyone I know is poor, in jail, or gone.” Season 6 concludes
with Piper leaving Litchfield, while Taystee is convicted for a crime
she didn’t commit -- shut up deeper into the bowels of this vicious
prison system, probably never to escape. It’s no accident that these
two characters’ opposite verdicts realistically reflect the difference in their racial and
socioeconomic backgrounds. Piper gets to start over. But Taystee, a black woman who’s
spent her whole life in “the system” “But I’m a child of the system.” finds ultimately that the world
doesn’t care about her innocence, about the injustice, about her. Add to this, Taystee’s fight for justice
for the killing of her best friend, Poussey, is not only denied but cruelly punished. “All I wanted was for the person
who killed my friend to be up here where I am now, telling you
why he MURDERED.” And the show’s final season
is really about this protagonist grappling with despair. “It’s every night for the
rest of your life. Looking at the same
f-[BLEEP]-ing darkness in the same f-[BLEEP]-ing box. It’s 20,000 nights!” Suicide appears to be her
last available means of agency. “But if I’m not alive,
then I’m not in prison. That’s the only way that I can have
some kind of control over my own life.” Not to mention her only way
out of Litchfield, ever. “Finally got your last meal, huh? At least you found your way out this place.” Orange Is the New Black
has presented countless stories of people getting crushed
and forgotten by a system that doesn’t care about human beings. “Our fight is with a system
that don’t give a damn about poor people and brown people
and poor brown people.” Meanwhile, the show has also revelled
in the humor and spirit of these characters who have
so many strengths worth celebrating. So does the series want to end
with despair over a broken world, or hope in the clever,
creative, loving individuals who persevere, in spite of everything? “I can’t hope. I... I don’t have
no more fight left in me.” Ultimately, through Taystee,
Orange is the New Black chooses hope. “Think I’m gonna keep swingin’
a little bit longer, see what I hit.” Taystee’s last season arc also bears a notable resemblance
to Shawshank Redemption. A wrongfully convicted,
inspirational character the audience fears will commit suicide sees the plucky young mentee
they’ve tutored tragically die, shortly after passing the GED. And at the heart of both stories
is an affirmation of hope, “Hope is a good thing,
maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies.” not only when it seems
justified, but even more so when life appears utterly hopeless. Taystee’s turning point comes through
a flashback to a call with Poussey, who reminds her that
(in spite of all the darkness) life includes joys and loves
we can never anticipate. “You know, wh-what kinda life
would that’ve been if I never met you? You gotta hold on a little longer
than you think you can. There’s good shit working its way to you
that you don’t even know about.” In the end, the hope Taystee finds
isn’t in the world, but in herself… The wrongs against her
may never be righted, but she can make
a positive difference for others. “If they don’t get some kind of
assist within the first 72 hours, they probably gonna end up criming and landing they asses
back in here, like I did.” And she shows that optimism is found
through creating something you believe in, contributing to a better world --
helping someone else. “This is financial literacy, and this is
gonna help you get off the poverty bus. Or at least get you enough money so that you ain’t gotta do
illegal shit no more, okay?” Daya’s story ends just as it began --
with her getting attacked by her mother. Dayanara and Aleida Diaz represent
the toxic cycle of generational trauma, and a pernicious system
that destroys whole families. When Orange is the New Black begins,
Aleida comes off as a nightmare mom, “You need to look after them better.” “How about you?” “I got better things to do. I’m eating oysters, bitches.” while Daya is a sweet,
artistic, romantic flower. Daya is clearly a
victim of circumstance, and of a mother who made
a lot of bad choices. “I take a fall for
that motherf-[BLEEP]-er, the least he could do is visit.” “Hey, I have an idea,
you want to ask how we’re doing?” But the final season delves into how Aleida herself
was a victim of circumstances, pushed into this life of
bad choices by her own mother. “But the last guy kept pinching me. And his breath smelled like dog treats.” “If he wants to pinch you,
let him pinch you.” Moreover this woman (who was taught terrible coping
techniques from childhood) is often acting out of a fierce desire
to protect her children. “You like messing
with little girls? Huh?” Tragically, her misguided
actions tend to push her kids toward the very dangers
she’s trying to prevent. “I can’t have that. I can’t have another one
f-[BLEEP]-ed up like that.” Daya is, more than any other character, changed beyond recognition
for the worse by her time in prison. “I f-[BLEEP]-ing run this place.” It’s symbolic that the drugs
Taystee considers using to kill herself come from Daya. Facing down an entire life
without escape from these walls, she gets hooked on drugs, and her addiction turns her into
a cold-hearted crime lord and killer. “Who’s this evil junkie? I-I don’t even recognize you.” In this final mother-daughter moment
onscreen, Aleida’s violence is triggered by Daya’s plan to
involve her sisters in crime. “Leave the family stuff to me, ’cause
Eva's gonna do whatever I tell her to do, and we maybe even bringing Lucy in.” The image of this desperate mother trying to kill her own daughter
to save her family, captures the tragic losing battle
she’s been fighting all along. It helps us understand that
the first slap had the same meaning: Aleida’s misery that she
couldn’t stop her daughter from ending up where she did. “Oh, from here on out,
this place will hit you for me.” Actress Dascha Polanco confirmed that the writers assured her
Daya doesn’t die here. But Polanco interpreted
the symbolism of the ending: “Her story is the product of a cycle that we, as a community,
need to intervene in. ... The system is broken and it’s very
obvious when we see all these stories. ... They’re the forgotten ones.” “What happened to you? You used to be sweet. Drawing and talking about boring shit.” Maritza, the beauty who defines herself
by how much she gets looked at “I’ve had a lot of stalkers
over the years.” “Right. Because of your face?” “And my body.” ends her story on
Orange Is the New Black with being disappeared. After getting picked up by ICE,
she’s shocked to discover that she wasn’t born in the US,
as she always believed. But while she eventually has
a good defense shaping up “And they put me in touch with a lawyer. She said I actually might
have a good case.” she makes the gutsy move to
help other detainees access a lawyer, and she’s quickly deported. Her story proves the moral that no good deed goes
unpunished in our world. “Why do the hot ones always
gotta cause trouble?” but that makes it all the more
important that you do the right thing. We see this determination
in Maritza’s eyes when she decides to extend a hand
to the other women in her situation, even though she knows
it will likely cost her. “This is for a lawyer.” Maritza’s ending also illustrates
how much of life comes down to luck. The plot of her hitting it off
with an NBA player represents how close she comes to getting
the fairy tale she always dreamed of. “As soon as I get back, we’re
gonna plan some traveling, too. Buying you a ticket to visit me in LA.” It seemed incredibly plausible that Maritza would be rewarded
by our society for her looks. “Yo, you just hit 10,000 views!” “No shit! Let me see this. All these comments are about you...” There’s a bitter, unfair randomness
in her getting picked up in a raid after she’s made the smart, responsible
choice not to risk violating her parole. “Cheer up, girl. You did the right thing. Better than ending up back in prison.” She almost got exactly what she wanted. “I could’ve been a wifey or
a trophy wife or a Real Housewife. All I ever wanted to be was anything
with the word ‘wife’ in it, you know?” And the only thing that separates her
from one of those rich basketball wives is timing -- a bad break. The series uses Maritza to speak
to incredibly raw current events. “This is America.” [Sniffs] “Not in here.” And it masterfully makes viewers feel
these events on a deeply personal level, through someone they’ve come
to care about over years of watching. “I called them, and
I told them all about you. How cute and fly you are, and how you’re basically
like the next Kylie Jenner, and they have to save you.” Maritza is the perfect character
to enter this world through. She’s a young, beautiful
person who’s fully American. “They can’t deport Maritza! Yo,
she’s never even been to Colombia!” She’s always been
a comic, joyful character, “You stupid, dumb, Colombian BARBIE.” “Okay. One, I’m Colombian-AMERICAN. And two, what does my hotness
have to do with this?” and we can easily imagine
things going well for her. All this makes her sudden disappearance
shocking and painful to behold. Meanwhile, her final image highlights
just how many others like her that we haven’t got to know are going
through equally unimaginable pain. “Por favor, no hagas esto. Toda mi vida está aquí. Mi familia está aquí.” as they’re denied their
rights, “disappeared,” and treated as if they
never existed at all. “What happened?” “She disappeared.” Stay tuned for our next
Orange is the New Black video, covering what happens to
the rest of the ladies in Orange. “The band is broken up.” to download Dashlane and
get a free 30-day premium trial. 