Tsutomu Yamaguchi died from stomach cancer. The cancer part perhaps isn't surprising given
that Yamaguchi currently the only person officially recognized by the Japanese government
as having lived through the atomic bombings of both Hiroshima and Nagasaki. What surprising, given that history, is
that Yamaguchi avoided the disease for so long, not dying until January 4, 2010, at
the age of 93. So how did Yamuguchi find himself at both
locations during the two respective blasts? At the age of 29, Yamaguchi was on hway
back home from a three month long business trip to Hiroshima on August 6, 1945. At the time, he was an engineer for Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries- specifically, working as an oil tanker designer. On hway to the train station to head back
to hhome in Nagasaki, he noticed he'd forgotten htravel permit and went back to get it
while hcolleagues, Akira Iwanaga and Kuniyoshi Sato, went on. He picked up hpass and was on hway back
to the station when, at 8:15 a.m., he saw a bomber flying over the city and "two small
parachutes", then a rush of blinding light, sound, wind, and heat knocked him to the ground. Mr. Yamaguchi had the misfortune of being
approximately 3 km from a nuclear blast. The immediate effects of thwere hear
drums rupturing, temporarily blindness, and burns over much of hupper body. After hinitial disorientation, and in spite
of hinjuries, Tsutomu managed to make hway to an air-raid shelter where he met up
with htwo colleagues who had also survived the blast. He spent the night in the shelter and in the
morning he and hco-workers headed back to Nagasaki via train as originally planned. When he arrived, he received bandage treatments
from a local hospital, and even felt well enough to report for work on August the 9th,
just 3 days later... (Think about that next time you have to take
a week off from getting a cold…) Of course, Yamaguchi had to explain hburns
to hcoworkers. Hboss was in disbelief over hclaim that
it was a single explosion that destroyed much of Hiroshima. "You're an engineer," he said to Tsutomu,
"calculate it…how could one bomb destroy an entire city?" The boss spoke too soon. According to Yamaguchi, during thconversation
the air-raid sirens went off and then, once again, he saw a blinding white light. He dropped to the floor immediately; he was
familiar with the drill. Yamaguchi stated, "I thought the mushroom
cloud had followed me from Hiroshima." Both bombs exploded near the city centers
and both, interestingly enough, were just about 3 kilometers away from Tsutomu's position
at the time. Despite thexplosion being slightly more
powerful than the one at Hiroshima (21 kilotons vs. 16 kilotons at Hiroshima), thanks to the
city's uneven terrain and the fact that many parts of the city were divided by water, which
prevented the extensive fire damage that happened in Hiroshima, there wasn't nearly the amount
of overall infrastructure damage. Yamaguchi himself experienced no immediate
injury from thsecond explosion, though of course was exposed to another high dose
of ionizing radiation and medical supplies to treat hexisting burns were now in short
supply. Interestingly, Yamaguchi almost didn't have
to go through thordeal twice. Nagasaki was not the original target for the
second nuke- that was the city of Kokura. However, thanks to a cloud covering Kokura
when the bomber arrived, they had to divert to a secondary target, Nagasaki, as the mission
stipulated that they were not to drop the bomb unless they had a visual of the target. When the bomber arrived at Nagasaki, they
also found significant cloud cover, but because they were low on fuel, it was not possible
to divert to another target, so they made their run anyways, despite their orders. When they got close, just before releasing,
they did have a brief visual to confirm their location before dropping the bomb. Had they had more fuel or there not been a
cloud cover over Kokura, Yamaguchi and a not insignificant portion of the Japanese population
would have had their lives drastically changed, some for the good and some for the bad. Surprisingly, unlike so many others who experienced
even just one of the blasts, Yamaguchi went on to live a long and productive life with
the only major permanent physical health problem as the result of the bombings being the loss
of hearing in hleft ear, though the burns took some time to heal; he temporarily lost
all hhair; and he experienced a great deal of psychological trauma, as one might expect. He and hwife, Hisako, even went on to have
children, who all turned out perfectly healthy, which at least at the time, not so much today,
was thought to be something of a miracle considering both parents had been exposed to such high
levels of ionizing radiation. Yamaguchi's wife lived to 88, dying of kidney
and liver cancer. Yamaguchi himself lived to the ripe old age
of 93 years old and for most of hlife made little mention of the fact that he'd been
present at both bombings. He initially just registered as a survivor
of Nagasaki. According to one of hdaughters, hreasoning
for downplaying this, and not registering as a survivor of Hiroshima as well, was his
robust health through most of hlife. He felt it would be disrespectful to the many
thousands who were not so lucky, health-wise. Once in h80's, he changed hstance, breaking
hsilence on the matter and officially applying for recognition as a survivor of both blasts,
which was granted by the Japanese government in 2009, shortly before hdeath. He then dedicated the rest of hlife to
campaigning for the disarmament of nuclear weapons from all nations. He even wrote a book outlining hexperience,
which included many poems he wrote about the event (Raft of Corpses). Despite it all, Yamaguchi considered himself
lucky. As he said shortly before hdeath, "I could
have died on either of those days. Everything that follows a bonus." Bonus Fact:
Ever wonder why nuclear bombs create a mushroom shaped cloud? Well, wonder no more. Thphenomenon all comes down to a little
something called the Rayleigh-Taylor instability, and by extension, convection. It all starts with an explosion that creates
a Pyrocumulus Cloud. Thball of burning hot gases accelerated
outwardly in all directions. Since the burning ball of accelerated gases
hotter, and therefore less dense, than the surrounding air, it will begin to rise-
in the case of nuclear explosions, extremely rapidly. Thultimately forms the mushroom cap. As the ball rises, it will leave behind air
that heated, creating a chimney-like effect that draws in any smoke and gases on the outer
edge of the chimney- convection in action! Visually, thforms the stipe (stalk) of
the mushroom. The perception that the mushroom cap curling
down and around the stipe primarily a result of the differences in temperature at the center
of the cap and its outside. The center hotter and therefore will rise
faster, leaving the slower outer edges to be caught up in the stipe convection’s awesome
attributes. Once that cloud reaches a certain point in
our atmosphere, where the density of the gas cloud the same as the density of the surrounding
air, it will spread out, creating a nice cap. Thbrings me to the shorter, yet more geeky
answer. Thentire process something that describes
the Rayleigh-Taylor instability. Thinstability well known in physics
and, in general, describes the merging between two different substances (mainly liquids and
gases) that have different densities and are subjected to acceleration. In the case of an atomic bomb, the acceleration
and the hotter gases creating the differing densities of material are caused by the explosion. From this, you might have guessed you don't
necessarily need an atomic bomb to create a mushroom cloud. All you need enough energy delivered rapidly
(in thcase an explosion) that creates a pocket of differing densities of material
(in thcase, heated gases). There are numerous other examples in our world
that create, and are described by, the same phenomenon that gives us thformation. For instance, the magnetic fields of planets,
the jet-stream of winds that help control our planet's climate, the sound of snapping
shrimp, even our understanding of certain different forms of fusion can all be attributed
to Rayleigh-Taylor instability. Now, you might have also noticed that nuclear
explosions, besides producing thfrightening fungal formation, also sometimes result in
a cloud ring around the mushroom cap. What's going on here that a low pressure
area created via the negative phase of the shockwave (the phase that follows the
wave of compressed gases at the leading part of the shock wave). Thresults in a drop in temperature, which
along with the low pressure can potentially lower the dew point sufficiently for a temporary
cloud to form. Thcloud halo around the explosion known
as a "Wilson Cloud", named after Scottish physicist Charles Wilson who invented the
Wilson Cloud Chamber where similar sorts of things can be observed. Bonus Fact 2: The bomb that hit Nagasaki was
called "Fat Man", many claim named after Winston Churchill. Thclaim has been debunked by none other
than the namer of the bomb, physicist Robert Serber, who stated he named "Fat Man" such
simply because of its shape. Serber also named "Little Boy", the bomb dropped
on Hiroshima. 