I have a confession to make. I am fascinated by morning routine videos. It's just interesting to see the habits that successful people pack into the first parts of their day. But there's a slight problem
with most of these videos. Most of these routines
take entirely too long, and replicating them yourself
is just not practical. You simply don't have time for an hour of meditation in the morning, or a long session at the gym, or writing eight pages in
your gratitude journal. By the time you wake up in the morning, you've probably got an hour tops before you need to be doing the first thing on your calendar. So, here is my proposition. Let's put that hour to good use. Let's build a morning routine
that only takes an hour, but, that is still comprehensive, and that covers six major areas. Nutrition. Hydration. A bit of exercise. Hygiene, of course. Some learning. And finally, number
six, sunlight exposure. And sure, you won't have time to mindfully pour water over
your teapot for 30 minutes to build up a patina, or
log 20 miles on Strava. But, hitting these six areas will give you a great start to the day. And with some good planning and timing, I do think that it's
doable in under an hour. And here's one way that you could do it. (muted jazz music) First, throw yourself out of bed the moment your alarm goes off. Don't let the snooze button
waste any of your precious time. If you can avoid that, this should only take about 30 seconds. Once you're up, do all the basics. Brush your teeth, shave if you need to, and take a shower. Now you could also shower
at night to save time, but I like to shower in the morning, and I've found that it only
takes about four minutes anyway. To save some time while
you're getting dressed, you can lay out all your
clothes the night before, so that they're waiting for
you right when you wake up, and so that you don't have to spend time deciding what to wear. All told, this part should
take you about 15 minutes tops, as long as you don't find yourself staring at a styrofoam head. With hygiene taken care of, the next item on your list is hydration. I find the three most important things for feeling fully awake in the morning are sunlight, movement, and hydration. So, right after showering, I'll
drink a full glass of water. Now, this is probably the
quickest step in the routine, unless you're like me and have plants that also need hydration. Even so, after two or three minutes, you'll be moving on to the next step, which is my favorite, making coffee. Now with only an hour to spare, my brewing method of
choice is gonna be drips, as you can just set it and forget it. And since your cuppa Joe is gonna take about five minutes to brew, you've got some time to
get a bit of exercise in. Now like I said before, you don't have time for
a lengthy gym session. But, with an inexpensive
pull-up bar on the door, you can do some pull-ups. And most people, other
than those who live here, have access to the ground, which is great for crunches, push-ups, and lots of other things. Breakfast is one area that
can eat up a lot of your time. But, if you choose the right foods, you'll make prep, eating, and cleanup all go really, really quickly. I like to start with a piece
of toast, and here's a trick. Put some frozen spinach in a bowl with olive oil, chopped garlic, and salt. Microwave that for 90 seconds and you've got a serving of vegetables to go with your toast. Finally, hard-boiled eggs are a great way to round things out. You can make them in bulk on the weekends, or just buy them boiled
and peeled from the store, like I do. As an alternative to all of this, you could also make a smoothie, and I'll link to my smoothie recipe in the description down below. Either way, prep should only
take six to eight minutes. Now, you could bundle
nutrition with learning by reading while you eat. But with the time limit that you're on, you probably don't have time
to get deep into a book, so instead you might want
to opt for an article. In this case, the book
that I'm reading right now has chapters with several
article-length subsections, so it's easy to read
one in about 15 minutes. After that, cleanup is also really quick, since we didn't use that many dishes. Now the last thing that
we mentioned wanting was some sunlight exposure. And normally, you would go
outside for a walk, to get that. But, perhaps, like me, you currently have 18 inches
of snow outside your window. And it's freezing cold outside. In which case we're not doing that. Instead, open up a window and then maybe use the rest
of the time for extra reading. Or meditation. Or really anything else
that you're trying to learn. Starting your day with a bit of progress
on a goal feels great. But, whatever you decide to do, try to keep the 20 second rule in mind. Set things up so that it
takes less than 20 seconds to start using them. This will save you time,
but more importantly, it'll remove friction that could prevent the
formation of good habits. Of course, you could also
just use this extra time to pack up your bag, so that
way once your hour's up, you can easily roll into whatever it is that you need to do next. Which, in this case, is filming a video. Now, this routine is just a suggestion, and there are definitely
changes that you could make. For instance, if your commute
involves walking or biking, then sunlight exposure
is already taken care of. And, if you wanted even more time for exercise or for learning, you could just skip breakfast altogether. A lotta people practice what's
called intermittent fasting, where they restrict their mealtimes to an eight-hour window during the day, and then fast for the other 16. Plus, all that stuff about breakfast being the most important meal of the day is just marketing by cereal companies. You can get subscribed right there if you haven't done so already, and I'll see you in my next video. (soothing electronic music) 