"Saturday Night Live" has
been on television since 1975. They've won Emmy Awards, they've been a jumping
off point for dozens of now world famous comedians. And whether you like the show or not the sheer production of it writing a 90 minute show on a Tuesday and then performing it live on television that Saturday is impressive but is the show actually funny? The short answer is, yeah of course it is, sometimes. Pretty much every episode of
SNL ever has had good sketches and it's had bad sketches. Because of that, it's a show that's almost impossible to define. When the quality of an
episode can range from hysterical something you quote
for the rest of your life to polarizing or just downright clingy. Is it funny or is it not funny? In this case I think the
only logical answer is both but that's not ever how you
hear people describe it. Something I've always noticed
about SNL that makes it different than most
other shows is not only, does almost everybody
have an opinion on it? But the opinions that people do have are much more matter of fact than they are with other shows. Like you often hear
people say something like, "Breaking Bad?" Yeah, I tried watching it, but
it just wasn't really for me or like, yeah, I've seen "Two Broke Girls" but I just don't really
think it's funny, right? I don't think it's funny. But with SNL it's almost always like, yeah that's not funny. That show that's been on for
44 years and has had literally thousands of sketches,
none of them are funny, it's never been funny. Or even more commonly than that
where you always hear people say SNL, hasn't been
funny since the nineties or the eighties or for
God's sake, the seventies? Really? Yeah men, those first six
episodes of "Saturday Night Live" a thing of beauty, but I tell you the roughly one
thousand episode since then have all been crap. It would be one thing If you said, my favorite era of SNL was the seventies. That's fine If you wanna say that, but just because your favorite
part of the show was in 1978, doesn't mean the show hasn't
been funny in 40 years. Now, I will say the
past four or five years, the show has been in probably the worst state it's ever been in. And I don't know if that's
just the lack of talent which is something that
could be overcome by bringing in the right talent, but I will take to my grave that the mid to late
two thousands era of SNL is as good as any other
period of the show. And it's not just because
I grew up watching that and I'm very biased, but it is probably mostly that. But now look at the
names you're dismissing, people often associate the death of SNL with the departure of big name celebrities like Eddie Murphy, Adam Sandler,
Will Ferrell's a big one. Will Farrell left the show in 2001. You wanna know who's been
on the show since then? Amy Poehler, Tina Fey,
Kristen Wiig, Fred Armisen, Maya Rudolph, Bill Hader,
Will Forte, Andy Samberg, Chris Parnell, Rachel
Dratch, Jason Sudeikis. And that's just up until 2009. Most of those people were on
the show at the same time. That's so much talent and
it wasn't just the cast, they had great well-respected writers. Tina Fey was an amazing head writer, John Mulaney wrote on the
show for several years. I know I have a bit of nostalgia
and bias for this period but it just is so frustrating
to me when people completely write off this entire era of the show, just because Will Ferrell
wasn't on it anymore. I will also be the first to
admit even as a fan of the show, that there have been entire seasons that have been borderline unwatchable. Typically these are the
transition seasons after big stars leave, and either the
cast that's replacing them isn't as good or they're
just underdeveloped and the writers haven't figured out how to write to their strengths yet. When you've spent six
years writing sketches for Fred Armisen and Chris and Wiig and now you have to figure out how to write sketches for
Noël Wells and John Milhiser. Those are two real human beings who were both on the show by the way but things are gonna be
a bit weird for awhile. It's gonna be a learning experience but that's just part of the show and it always has been and to me it's something that I think
makes SNL more respectable as an institution is how many times Lorne
Michaels has had to retool the SNL roster to find success
again after some of the strongest cast members have left. (hip music) Something that's always made
me gravitate towards SNL as a fan is I think the same
thing that's made me gravitate towards sports over the years. And I know I will probably
lose a few of you here but this is just how
it makes perfect sense in my weird dumb brain. I know I rarely ever bring this up but I am a massive football fan. And to me managing the cast of SNL isn't that much different than
like an NFL general manager having to build and maintain
a successful football team. You gotta scout the players, you draft them, decide if they're good
enough to stay on the team. If they are, then you have to decide how much money you're going to
pay them to stay on the team. Otherwise you might lose
them to another team. And the big one is no matter what, no matter how good someone is on the show, they will eventually retire and you have to find someone
else to replace them. Unless it's Kenan Thompson because he'll be on the show forever. Just like in sports, there
are ebbs and flows to this. There are times where
the team is doing good and kicking ass. And then there's down years, when they're in between good players and they're trying to
figure out an identity. In 2011 when Peyton Manning
missed an entire season, the Colts were historically laughably bad. And then they drafted Andrew Luck and they've been mostly
pretty good ever since. As a fan those down years
are never as fun to watch but it's all a natural and
necessary part of the process. And the fact that SNL always
seems to figure it out in the long run is impressive. Turnover happens all the time on us rarely do they ever enter a
season with the same exact cast as in the previous season. It hasn't happened since 2006 but every eight or 10 years,
there's a big transition. As you can see on this
table that I made myself, not coz anyone asked me to,
I did it because I wanted to I did this for fun, but as you can see on this table the last big turnover on
the show was mainly in 2013 but started the year before
and continued into season four. In 2013, Bill Hader, Fred
Armisen and Jason Sudeikis all left the show at the same time. And this was just a
year after Kristen Wiig and Andy Samberg left the
show at the same time. So, as you can imagine 2013
was a pretty difficult year for SNL. They had five shoes to, or would it be 10 shoes to fill, right? 'Cause they'd each have two. 10 big shoes to fill and to
do so Lorne Michaels hired six new cast members all at once but out of those six, only two of them lasted
more than one season. Which in hindsight makes a lot of sense, it very much was just a
case of Lorne Michaels throwing everything at the wall and seeing what would stick. A lot of it didn't but what
did stick was Kyle Mooney and Beck Bennett, they were hired in 2013 and they're still on the show now. Sort of, I would love to see more of them, but I'll get to that latter. If you're wondering what
just happened there, my camera died in the
middle of my sentence and then in this next part it's out of focus for like 40 seconds. I'm a professional YouTuber. (string music) So, that's great now. But like I mentioned before, it's pretty obvious that SNL
is in a weird state right now. And there are several reasons for that. I'll start with the smaller ones before getting to the big obvious one. Number one, the writing has been pretty
weak for a few years now. I think going from John
Mulaney and Seth Meyers to Colin Jost is a pretty big step down. I mean, Colin's all right,
but he's not as funny. I also think the tone
of the show as a whole has shifted to a worst place
and it's not a coincidence that every time John
Mulaney comes back to host, the whole show feels different. It like comes alive. And I think it's his influence
on the concepts and ideas of the show that bolster
everything else within it. And that's what the
show is usually missing. Is those like silly, weird ideas that work because they're rooted
in really solid jokes. Number two, that cast is
severely misused, not bad. They're just not used properly. There's some incredible
people on the show right now. Kate McKinnon is a legend,
Cecily Strong as an angel. Actually, I'm pretty sure I'm in love with every single woman on the show. Kenan's a legend, Beck
and Kyle are probably my two favorite human
beings on the planet. So, then what's wrong with the cast? Well, most nights it doesn't
feel like I'm watching SNL, it feels like I'm watching
the Alex and Mikey show featuring Leslie Jones and Pete Davidson. And they're all fine,
but like where's Kyle? Oh his sketch got cut for time? For the 40th time in a row. You know, he's the funniest
person on the show, right? He's the closest thing
the show has right now to a Fred Armisen and he's never on it, but you know what? Even having said all that there's a reason I still watch the show every week. And it's because there
have been some incredible sketches the past few years. The "Office Potty" was
hysterical, the "House Sketches" those are great. The first impression
sketch with Jason Momoa from this past Christmas
was like an instant classic. So, there absolutely has
been some good sketches on the show. It just feels like maybe
now more than ever before it's few and far between. But of course the biggest reason the show seems to be suffering right now. And I feel like we would all agree on this is that it is
too God damn political (uptempo music) or is it? Yeah, it is. But is it more political
than it used to be? It seems like it, right. It seems like ever since
a very specific day in the year 2016, the tone of the show has shifted drastically, right? Well, I wanted to check that. So, I made another Excel spreadsheet. Look you guys gotta understand this, a YouTuber I don't get the
chance to work with Excel nearly as much as I'd like to. But I made another Excel spreadsheet and this time I went through every episode from the past five
seasons and counted first the number of sketches in every episode not including weekend update
or the host monologues. And then I counted how
many of these sketches were centered around politics. If you're wondering what
this green area means what's so special about
season 42, episode six. Well, that was the show that
aired on November 10th, 2016 the first Saturday after
Trump got elected president. Now, what you'd probably think is that since that day there have
been more political sketches per episode, as well
as a higher percentage of the show being devoted to
politics and that is true. In the 47 episodes
before Trump got elected, there was an average of one and a half political
sketches per episode. But ever since then, that
number has jumped up to two. So, yes, there is a difference,
but not a crazy difference. It's not like it's doubled or tripled. That number just means
that there's one extra political sketch every two weeks. And that's not enough to
make the whole show feel drastically different. So, what happened then? Why does it feel so different now? And I think the big thing is just tone. SNL has always been
political, that's not new. I remember Will Forte and Will Ferrell playing George W. Bush, Darrell
Hammond playing Al Gore, Tina Fey playing Sarah Palin. They've never shied away from politics, it's very much been their brand. The difference is now, when Alec Baldwin comes on the show to play
Trump for the 300th time it no longer seems to be
for the sake of comedy. It seems like they're just
trying to make him angry. They seem to have a personal
vendetta against the guy and they indulge in making him so mad that he angrily tweets at them. And don't get me wrong, I am
absolutely not defending him. I don't like Trump, I
wanna make that clear, I don't like him. I usually agree with SNL's point of view. I agree with what they're
trying to say in a sketch but that doesn't mean it's fun to watch. Tina Fey as Sarah Palin,
that was fun to watch. You know how I know that was fun to watch? Because Sarah Palin came on the show. John McCain, Hillary
Clinton, Barack Obama, they all came on the show after the show had done
impressions of them because the impressions
weren't meant to piss them off. Now, of course part of
that is Trump doesn't seem to have a sense
of humor about himself, he seems like the most defensive person in the history of humanity but it is also definitely a
Testament to the overall tone of the impression and how
mean-spirited it has become to the point that even if you agree with what they're saying, it
just isn't that fun to watch. Sorry about that, I hate talking about
politics on this channel, I literally never do it because it feels like I'm walking through a field of landmines and
no matter where I step, I'm gonna piss someone off. So, I'm only gonna say one
last thing on the subject, comedy with an agenda is not comedy because it's not meant
to make people laugh, it's meant to make people agree. And I just wanna laugh. (laughing) (upbeat classical music) Well I've talked for about
14 and a half minutes now, so I should have enough information to definitively answer the
question, is SNL funny? Let's check the numbers. Huh, fuck. I don't know men, if you've seen all my comedy
analysis videos like this one, and you know that I pretty
much have the same lukewarm conclusion every time
that comedy is subjective and I'm not in charge of
what's good and what's bad. All I can do is provide my opinion and that's what I try to do in this video. I think you could take
the information provided in this video and make an
argument for why SNL is good or why it is bad? But at the end of the day, it's up to you. The only thing I think I
can say is objectively good and consistently impressive
about "Saturday Night Live" is their set production. Whenever they have a
sketch, it's very relevant. Like it's covering
something that just happened a couple of days prior. I think people tend to be
impressed by the writers and performers that they
were able to turn it around in such a short amount of time. But think about all of the sets they use, all of the props and costumes
and makeup that they wear. Production wise the show is top-notch and they consistently impress me with what they're able to do with the time limit that they have. But as far as the
quality of the show goes, I think because of the format, because of the time
crunch they're always on for as long as the show exists it will always be hit or miss. And even the things that I think are a hit and I think are a miss. I don't know, other people have different opinions. A lot of people seem to
like Alec Baldwin's Trump. I don't like it but
clearly other people do. Those videos seem to get the most views on their YouTube channel. Those political episodes tend
to get the highest ratings on TV. And then there's times
where we'll all see a sketch like the Jason Momoa, Beck
Bennett hide-and-seek one. That's just so funny
right from the beginning. And then it has this weird
turn, like halfway through. It's just this perfect
piece of art in my opinion. And I'll go to the video on YouTube and see that it has almost 2000 dislikes and all these hate comments. And I'm like, Oh yeah, no one
will ever agree on anything. I'd like to trust that with the credibility that
I feel SNL has earned over the years, that
they have the capability of getting over the hump
that they're in right now and returning to their glory days of old. But I guess if that never happens and they eventually disband, maybe that'll be good too. At the very least that means Kyle Mooney can
get back to making dank ass, sick ass YouTube videos. And we can all agree that that is good. (dramatic music) Alright, Maybe not all of us. (hip music) Hope you all enjoyed this video. As you know, I like to
make videos like this every few months, and I'm always pleasantly surprised by the positive response. If you didn't like this
video, that's okay too. I'm not gonna take it
personally or anything, Caitlyn. Most of you are gonna
watch that and be like, what? My name's not Caitlyn, but for the one Caitlyn out
there who was just thinking about how much she didn't like this video, you're gonna think twice about not liking the video next time. But anyway, that's it for now guys. I hope to see you tune
in for next week's video which will just be a montage of my silver medal gymnastics
run in the 2004 Olympics. I was 11. Goodbye. (hip classical music) 