(upbeat rock music) - Hello. My name is Andrew Rea, and this is Sohla El-Waylly, and she's here today to show
me how to temper chocolate. Now, I'm terrified of tempering chocolate. I think most people are, but you are very, very good at it. - Nothing to be scared of. Totally easy. - All right.
- We're gonna crush it. - Well, not only am I
gonna have a hard time trying it with a face mask on, but my glasses are fogging up. So you and I both have the antibodies. New York is in phase three
of reopening right now. How do we feel about going maskless? - Let's do it. Let's go for it. Naked faces for the world. Basics with Babish and my website basicswithbabish.com are brought to you by Squarespace. Head there now to check
out all of the recipes from the show kitchen,
equipment lists, and more. Get 10% off your first Squarespace order by visiting squarespace.com/babish. From websites and online stores to marketing tools and analytics, Squarespace is the all-in-one platform to build a beautiful online presence and run your business. So Sohla, what is tempering chocolate? Why temper chocolate? - When you melt chocolate, it actually can reset in
a lot of different ways. There's one particular temp where you get the perfect
crystal structures. Crystal formation actually
takes quite a bit of time if you just melt and cool. So instead what we do as you drop it down below your target temperature, and at that lower temperature, crystal formation is really active. Basically, you're gonna melt it, and then you're gonna
reduce the temperature, and then you're gonna bring it back up, and there's reasons for that. But you don't need to know
them if you don't want to. - That makes much more sense to me. So the idea of tempering chocolate is that we wanna make
chocolate that is going to set at room temperature?
- Yeah. For those of us who are
newcomers to chocolate tempering, or who have tried many times and failed, any advice that you can throw out there before we get into the kitchen? - The number one thing
with chocolate is patience. I think that that's where people fail, 'cause you're like, oh,
it's just one degree off. It'll be fine. It won't be fine. You gotta take it to the temp that I'm telling you to take it, or it won't be fine. Just wait. It might be five minutes. It might be 30 minutes. But if you wait, you'll be rewarded with shiny,
snappy, glossy chocolate. - Shiny, snappy, glossy, that's what they called me in high school. Let's cover some chocolate (Sohla laughs). (bags pops) - Just for reference, we have Valrhona 64% chocolate here, the best.
- My favorite. - This is your favorite, but generally chocolate
between 60% and 70% is where we want to be? - I mean, you can temper
any kind of chocolate, but I like this because it's
great for just the coating, as well as ganache. You can just invest in one chocolate, and get a lot out of it. - And with this versatile chocolate, our tempered journey begins, first dumping an inordinate
mountain of chocolate out onto our work surface. Beyond shock and awe, using
a large quantity of chocolate makes it easier to measure
and control the temperature in your melting bowl, which we're gonna fill to the
brim with our chocolate feves. - Maybe I asked you to
get too much chocolate. - That's not true. - So to temper the chocolate, what do we gotta do? - So we're gonna just start
by melting it. Melt it all. - To melt we are placing our
chocolate filled bowl out atop a large pot of just
barely simmering water being held over low flame, stirring constantly with
our oven mitts equipped, to eventually achieve our chocolate's recommended temperature
of 131 to 136 degrees. So this is gonna take a little while, so we'll see you guys
a little bit (laughs). All jokes aside, Sohla was right. Patience is a virtue most
divine in chocolate tempering, as we stir and slowly bring up the heat, checking it periodically to
taste thermometer drippings. 132, 133, 134. I think we off the heat. And then now we're adding
the seed chocolate. - [Sohla] Yes. - Both to cool off the chocolate and to help develop a
crystalline cellular structure, we're gonna add something
called seed chocolate, which is just a couple ounces
of finely-chopped chocolate, this and a target temperature
of 83 degrees Fahrenheit are gonna come together
to give our chocolate the three Ss of quality temperament: shine, snap, and sexiness. - Make sure you're going in under, get all the sides, you know?
- Okay. - Stirrin' and scrapin'. See, you can see these little swirlies, like, if this set right now, it would maintain those swirls. - And I always get the swirlies. - Not anymore.
- Not anymore. - Not anymore. - What do we say to the God of Swirlies? Not today. (intense orchestral music) - You know we're getting close, 'cause you can just like feel it as you're stirring, it's like sticking to the bowl.
- Yeah, there's suction at the bottom almost. - Now, when we're getting closer, you wanna make sure you're
constantly scraping down the sides of the bowl. So you don't want it to like
set to the sides of the bowl and then fall back into the chocolate. And then you have little
crumbles of chocolate and that's gross. - On the horizon of our goal, the cool down's final three degrees test the metal of any
challenger of chocolate. I'd be remiss not to share with you the strange places this
dark chocolate took us. You've been doing this so
much longer than I have. I don't know how you do it. - Everything gets boring
and easy after awhile. It's like, who's gonna win here, you or the chocolate? - Not the chocolate. Not the chocolate. Not in my house. - It's just like, you know, when you're a kid on a road trip, "Are we there yet?" That's it. - I guess I'm the kid in this
situation (Sohla laughs). - We all are.
- Is it done yet? - You just gotta maintain
the same chill you had when you got in here, you know?
- Maintain chill. - The more you're stirring, the angrier you seem to be getting. - You do it (Sohla laughs). It's not anger, it's sadness. - 83.
- 83. Don't go to 84. Don't do it. - I think we got it. - With our chocolate finally
reaching the crystal continuum, it's time to place it
back on the double boiler to reach its working temperature
of 88 degrees Fahrenheit, and finally test it on the
medium of your choosing. We chose strawberries. That is looking like a strawberry with chocolate on it. So now we're gonna start making candy. - We're gonna start making candy. - Let's make candy. All right. - Have you made honeycomb before? - I've never made honeycomb before either. - It's the best candy to make if you haven't ever made candy before. And if you don't have a thermometer, 'cause you don't need one. - [Andrew] We started our easy candy, that I thought I couldn't
possibly screw up, by combining 300 grams of sugar, 40 grams of corn syrup, and a third of a cup of
water in a medium saucepan. Set it over medium heat
and begin to process that I'll let Sohla explain. - Okay, so when you cook sugar, it actually gets a little acidic. Because it gets a little acidic, we're gonna add some baking soda to it, and just like when you
do vinegar, baking soda, it's gonna bubble up, get a lot of air in it, and then you get this
nice, light, crispy candy, instead of it just being like hard. - [Andrew] I've never
tried this candy before. - [Sohla] You never tried it? I don't understand. That's like me not
watching Lord of the Rings. - [Andrew] All right,
so we both have flaws. With the mixture warmed, I'm stirring with a fork, or Sohla is, to gently break up any
large lumps of sugar to aid in its melting, before covering for a
few minutes to steam down any crystals of sugar
that may have splashed onto the pot's sides. Then let Sohla amp you up
for what you're about to do. - It's gonna get amber. You dump in the baking soda all at once. Whisk for no more than 30 seconds, but be thorough. It's gonna bubble up. And then just in one clean, smooth motion, you're gonna pour it out. If there's too much agitation, you'll lose the bubbles, and it's just gonna-- - God, I'm scared. Be super careful, 'cause this will burn a hole
right through your hand, and I've seen it done. Let's see if the sugar is dissolved. We just need to simmer until
the sugar syrup dissolves. - Do you wanna look? - [Sohla] Did we get it? Yes. - Now we're in pursuit of a-- - Amber.
- Amber. In the pursuit of amber, you may find that your
sugar is coloring unevenly. If so, you want to gently delicately stir with a tiny whisk to spread
out areas of the mixture that are darkening faster than others. This is pretty amber. - [Sohla] Yeah, I think we have it. Okay, okay. All right. - [Andrew] He stays on? - No, let's turn it off. Do it. Go. Dump. Yes! Oh God, you need it. Oh God. - [Andrew] Here we go. - [Sohla] Thorough, but fast. Look at that poof. Look at that. - [Andrew] Look at the poof. - [Sohla] Look at that. All right. Pour. Pour! One clean movement! - [Andrew] One clean movement. I tried so hard and failed so hilariously.
- I think that that's gold medal. That's gold medal honeycomb.
- You serious? This looks like a mess. - [Sohla] No, put the whisk back here. Don't shake it off into there. And just walk away. - Okay, Jesus Christ. - I think it might've overcooked. - [Andrew] Yeah, it looks like it. - [Sohla] We might have to do it again, but that was a fantastic first round. - [Andrew] The repeated
steps of the process mock me, each one a reminder of my defeat. I must rise from the
burnt ash of honeycomb. I'll not be made a mockery
of in my own kitchen. No, not in the past. Not in the future. And certainly not now. - [Sohla] Do it! Do it! Do it! Do it! Drop it in. - [Andrew] Tell me when to go. - [Sohla] I think you're good. - Good?
- Yeah. (intense orchestral music) - [Andrew] Here we go. - [Sohla] Oh, look at how pretty. It's like beautiful, pretty colors. I think you nailed it. Yeah. - We gotta let this cool completely, and then we're gonna break it
up and dip it in chocolate? - Yep. Totally. - Once the honeycomb is completely cooled, use a serrated knife to cut
it into candy-sized pieces, which we're then gonna dip
in our tempered chocolate, and place on a
parchment-lined baking sheet before sprinkling with flaky salt. Okay. So we still have a lot of
leftover chocolate here. What do you propose that we do with it? - I wanna try and make like a pinata. A hollow thing of your head that we can fill with chocolate and smash. - You want to make a penny
out of my head and smash it? - Yeah, I've not done this before. I have made a pinata, but not one out of chocolate. - Well, I'm not gonna think too hard about the psychological underpinnings of what you want to do. (laughs) Good luck. (Andrew exhales) (Andrew inhales) - [Sohla] You guys have fun, don't you? - Is this going to be my beard? - I'm thinking, yeah. Just break it up. Little strands. - This is such an honor to have a bust made of
my head out of chocolate. (Andrew exhales) - A little beard drizzle. - That's about the size of my head. Right? - It's a little big. - I have a big head. Maybe a little-- - Let's grab my hat, see if it fits. You're right. That is a little big. It's not quite accepting my hat. - Your head's not as big as you think. (balloon whooshes) (Andrew exhales) ♪ Hush little balloon, don't say a word ♪ ♪ Momma's gonna buy you a hat, hat ♪ - That seems good. - Yeah. Okay, that fits. Let's try to learn how
to tie off the balloon for the first time. I am oddly lacking in life experience. - First time for everything, you know? This isn't even the hardest
part of this (laughs). - It's the hardest part of my day. I can do this. I can do this. Okay, I did it. I tied the balloon. - You know what I've learned today? - What?
- You're persistent. - And in that spirit, we persisted in making a chocolate me, covering a balloon in
two layers of chocolate, popping, removing it, piping my prominent features,
affixing them to our sphere, using chocolate as glue, and cooling it quickly by spraying it with canned air held upside down, then filling my dome
with our homemade candy. It was a lot of work to get here, but I think the results
speak for themselves. All right. Are you ready to meet the
chocolate Babish head, model pinata, candy boy? Sohla, you've done amazing work here. Shall we show the world? - I think, yeah. - Let's do it together.
- It's time. - Here we go. Three, two, one, - Wow. Wow. - I mean, the resemblance is striking. - Uncanny. Uncanny. - Let's beat the (bleep) out of it. One, two, three. (chocolate cracks) - Oh (laughs)!
- Oh, my brains! My brains! So much stronger than I imagined. Whoa. - Dude. Oh, look how perfect. - It's so shiny on the inside (laughs). - Just like my real skull. - Crisp. - Well, my head is delicious. Let's try my brains. I've been dying to try one of these. This is so freaking good. It's honeycomb with a little bit of salt. - Success. - This is quite a success. Thank you so much for coming by and teaching me how to do this. Next up, Reptar Bars, Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. The possibilities are limitless now that we know how to temper chocolate. - Make a head pinata of your own. - For everybody who makes
a tempered chocolate head pinata thing, the way we just did, I will personally donate
$50 to Feed America. How's that sound? - Wow. Awesome. - Tag us. We'll put it on the screen right here. Brad, make it go up on the screen. Right here. No, no, no. Bring it back. Okay. You got it. Tag us in the chocolate
pinata head challenge. - Do it! - We'll see you next time. Thank you so much for coming through. - Yeah, thanks for having
me. It was super fun. - Thank you for solving the
chocolate tempering problem for me and for so many others. - Hopefully.
- Hopefully. - Yeah, we'll see you next time on the Tempering with Babish. (bright electronic music) 