According to fitness trackers and pedometers,
people — if possible — should take at least ten thousand steps each day to live
a healthy lifestyle. But… why? I mean, I know exercise is good for you, but
what’s so special about ten thousand steps? How did doctors and scientists figure out
this was the perfect number for maintaining health and fitness? Well, as it turns out… they didn’t figure
this out. In reality, this nice, round number just isn’t
backed up by science. As far as anyone can tell, this figure can
be traced to the mid-1960s in Japan, when the world’s first wearable pedometer came
out. Its developers named their device Manpo-Kei,
which translates to “ten thousand step meter.” Then, they took advantage of the hype around
the 1964 Tokyo Olympics to promote it. Now, decades later, people are trying to walk
this massive number of steps thanks to some ingenious marketing and… not much else Because again, there’s no conclusive evidence
that ten thousand steps a day should be your ultimate health goal. Instead, many studies suggest that how fast
you move — whether you’re walking or doing something else — is much more important. Papers have shown that moderate or vigorous
exercise is associated with fewer depression symptoms, reduced feelings of anxiety, better
sleep quality, higher bone strength, and more. That explains why many public health guidelines
recommend a certain amount of time for an activity like this, not a certain number of steps. For example, the Physical Activity Guidelines
for Americans states that the average adult should get a minimum of one hundred fifty
minutes of moderate exercise or seventy-five minutes of vigorous exercise each week. If you really want to translate those guidelines
into steps, though, you can do that. Like, let’s say you want to get in some
moderate activity. For an exercise to be considered this intensity,
you need to burn at least three times the amount of energy you would at rest. And research has shown that, for some adults,
that’s equivalent to walking at a pace of about a hundred steps per minute, or roughly
four kilometers per hour. So to satisfy those U.S. guidelines, you’d
need to walk around fifteen thousand steps at this pace over the whole week, or approximately
twenty-one hundred steps per day. That number won’t make your pedometer happy,
but it will likely get your heart rate up. This being said, though, don’t worry if
you can’t get in those steps. There are tons of other ways to exercise if
walking a certain amount just isn’t a possibility. Like, there are plenty of people with mobility
issues and disabilities that lead healthy and active lives without keeping tabs on a
step counter. But in any case, if you can fit in some moderate
or vigorous activity, your health will likely be better for it. If you enjoyed watching this episode of SciShow,
we’ve got something else you’ll probably enjoy: a new documentary from PBS Nature. The film is called Nature: The Serengeti Rules,
and it follows the story of five unsung heroes of modern ecology. Beginning in the 1960s, these researchers
headed out into the wilderness, driven by an insatiable curiosity about how nature works. And while they were immersed in some of the
most spectacular places on Earth — like the Serengeti in Africa — they discovered
a single set of rules that governs all life and offers hope for the fate of our planet. In the documentary, the ecologists share the
stories of their adventures, and how their pioneering work on keystone species flipped
our view of nature on its head. This film premieres /tonight/ — that’s
October 9th, 2019 — at 8PM Eastern Time on PBS. But if you’re watching this video in the
future, you can find it at pbs.org/nature or on the PBS video app. If you watch it, let us know what you think! ♪♪♪ 