Little by Little
[ Second Week Behind] (G)I-DLE
Music Bank Waiting Room Apink! Apink! I love you, guys! You didn't know it, did you? How much I was shy
when we came across just now, right? I wanted to hide under the floor. You did it on purpose
to catch their eyes? Maybe she did... (Since the debut until now)
Shushu is a Big Fan of Apink 'She's a real fan...' Apink has come back, way to go! Shuhua is really... She monitors other singers a lot. Especially, she's a big fan
of girl groups. She knows all of them
and their dance moves, too. >> Not all of the dance moves. Nearly all of the moves. And you can dance them, right? She knows all of their songs
and can sing them immediately. She's super focusing on watching them. Right. I know every girl group these days. Anyway, Shuhua is amazing. 'Our Shushu is Amazing!' Miyeon made me cry. You made me cry. Why? What did I do wrong? You dropped a pin on the floor. What if I stepped on it... If I got hurt,
I couldn't perform in the season. Why did you do that? Minnie, what's the matter with you? Are you so bored? LOL Why are you doing that
in front of the camera? The fluid for the contacts(?)
That was flowing out. NEVERLAND, give Minnie your interest a lot. She seems to need more love now. No! I've been loved a lot by NEVERLAND. Then, why did you do that? Just thinking of something makes me cry. Everything is... Minnie's... Imaginary World... (Astonished) I have no idea how to respond to that. She's already empathizing with it too much. It's just out of my hand. She argues it's her tear... But, it's not. It's my tear! No, it's not! Yes, it is! I'll have its DNA analyzed. When it comes out of my eyes,
it's my tear. No, it's not. Yes, it is! You're not me.
How do you know it's not my tear? (Krrr~) Miyeon... Study Korean again. If you feel a lack of Korean
when you talk to a foreigner, it's real trouble. While quarreling with these foreigners, I feel that I need to study it more... Miyeon Decided to Study Korean More Show! Music Core Waiting Room Hi~ I'm Soojin of (G)I-DLE. For our 2nd week performance, we're at  now~ After being the top on a public TV yesterday,
you're the first place nominee today. I'm so happy. Anyway, we've been nominated
for the top today. If we become the top,
we'll be so much excited, right? Root for us, please! Hi, guys~ I'm Soyeon. We're the first place nominee today. So, the cameras are here. If we fail to be the top,
don't be disappointed, Cam. It can't be helped. We've never been the top at Music Core. Yesterday, we won first place
on a public TV for the first time. I've dreamed of winning the top
on every public TV in Korea. I hope we can make it this week. I'll do my best, way to go! Bye~ I'm here~ Oh, Soyeon Sis! It hurts x 3 Did she copy me with my overaction? You do this... When Yuqi Pretends to Get Hurt. (Hitting the mark) You would've done it to make me really embarrassed. When we practiced (dance moves),
I was standing on my toes. But, they might've touched her slightly. Yuqi said, 'Argh!' I didn't think I stepped on her. I thought, 'I was standing on the toes.
How can I step on her?' But, I just said I was sorry. So Moved 'Yuqi needs a lot of comforts.' That's what I thought. I just woke up. I had a good sleep for an hour. About the pink color... I love this shade of pink. Wait. It's a matching color~ Minnie and Smile here~ Does it suit me well? (A cold lady in a city) Today! We're the top nominee~ Let me go to the restroom. Yuqi, you've become taller, right? Indeed, indeed! I think I've got taller. Because of the shoe insert? Frankly, we always used the shoe insert. But, I think I've become a bit taller these days. Because I'm still a baby,
I'm still growing... You're not a baby. (Ignoring) A 22-year-old girl isn't a baby... I'm still a baby compared to a 24-year-old girl. You look like a mother. A mother? I'm not a mother. Because a daughter like Yuqi... (Thinking)   My mom is watching it, right? Oh... Really? Praising Yuqi As Much As She Can Music Trend Waiting Room I'm eating sushi at 'Music Trend' today. My fried tofu rice ball friend is sleeping~ Sushi Friend is Sleeping Sound Minnie is Enjoying the Food 'Shushu Woke Up by the Smell of Sushi' Tired... Oh, sushi~ Are you eating as soon as you've got up? 'Big Sister Miyeon Adores Shushu
Who's Eating the Food on Getting Up' Hi~ We are Fried Tofu and Rice Ball... Enjoy it~ I still don't understand the taste of fried tofu. Rice is the best~ Rice is the best! If you fill the tummy with rice,
you can't eat other yummy food. (Shushu filling her tummy with rice is shocked) It Was a Yummy Breakfast~ Hi~ I'm the makeup artist today. My name is Song Yuqi. My nationality is China. I'm from Beijing. My nickname is Beijing Puppy! To the Sister on the 8th floor
who NEVERLAND loves, I'll give you a nice makeup. Yes~ Welcome~ For the smoky makeup,
I don't use bright colors. Usually, I use dark pink or dark purple color. My trend these days
is the unbalanced makeup. What? So, I'll give her the makeup
only on one side of the face. Huh??? You can have your own fashion. I'll try just one side first. The point of the smoky makeup is... You need to have a fine touch. Like spreading colors gradually~ Sis on the 8th Floor (??)
Very Cooperative Just like this, It needs to have some gradation. That's the main point. Oh my gosh~
The size of your eye is different. OMG~ She seems to be very satisfied. She's smiling. I've decided the title of my shop. It's 'Happy Shop.' My customers smile and become happy here. Song Yuqi (22) / Owner of 'Happy Shop'
'She Seems Happiest Here' Can I look into a mirror? Nope! Amazing~ Looking at it, I can't help laughing. Looking Happy Yuqi, We're Happy, Too... You can't browse my shop. You have to pay for browsing. How much? One hundred million. (Shocked Miyeon) Just stand here and watch. I'm so nice, huh? Wow, it's not a joke. Not a joke, right? So bling bling, huh? Bling bling~ Since I became popular with that,
I don't lose my first resolution. The Reason for Charming Miyeon Since Birth
is Always Smiling... - You're so cute.
- Really? Thank you~ (Miyeon is always happy)
Enjoying the Praise for Others Like Hers... (Deep sigh) Call the guards... (Emergency)
Take a picture with me because I paid for the money. One, two, three~ Hold on, I'm such an expensive person. I paid one hundred million won! I'll capture and use it.
(Having a positive drive) And the nose... Literally, I'll do only half of it... Because you need to feel the difference. Happy Yuqi's Makeup Time... Not bad at all~ I'm Beijing Puppy. Thank you. Make a reservation for the next time! Click click! Happy and Friendly Image April 17, 2020, Music Bank
Top on the Public TV They've Dreamed of! April 18, 2020, Music Core
Top on the Public TV They've Dreamed of! April 19, 2020, Music Trend
Top on the Public TV They've Dreamed of! So Noisy (Well done, dancers!) One, two, three! We'll take it as the cheer up for our best. We promise to be better (G)I-DLE. Well done, guys! I'm grateful to everybody. NEVERLAND, thank you so much! Say you love NEVERLAND. I love you~ My dream has come true, guys! NEVERLAND is the best! It's really... I think NEVERLAND gave it to us. We really appreciate you, guys. We'll try a lot harder to show you our cool performances. (Thank U, NEVERLAND)
They've Finished Another Happy Week~ And... A Word to One Another 'Before announcing the 1st place,
they tried to speak the true hearts to each other!' 'But since the members were so sincere,
we will show it to you separately.' The order was decided by lots~
(It wasn't a set up) So Shy
(Miyeon) Only we are... Of an age at the team. So, I play jokes on you a lot... And we talk to each other a lot. But, I think I was too mischievous. I heard she didn't like it
and I was very sorry. Anyway, thank you for telling me that. But, it'll be awkward
to stop playing jokes suddenly. If I stop doing it, you'll be sad, right? So, let's play around as we do, bye~ (Shuhua) At an early age, you came from far away. It must've been hard for you
to experience the trainee days. I sometimes teased you and sometimes you teased me. But, I love you so much and let's do our best and be happy! I love you~ (Soojin) Red Fox, Soojin Sister, you've suffered so many hardships. Since the trainee, you've worked so hard. And you took care of me. I felt so reassured. Please love Shuhua and be healthy all the time. Yes, Minnie... Before we debuted, we promised to enjoy music. But on the other hand,
we wanted to be the top on the public TV. With the fact that we've been nominated
for the 1st place today, I think a quarter of my dream has come true. And I think your voice played the main role
for our success. Without your voice, (G)I-DLE's unique charm... And our voice tone wouldn't stand out. In many more places, let's work harder! Way to go! (Soyeon) If we win first place today, I have so many things to tell her. While Soojin is like Mom in our daily life, Soyeon has helped me a lot on the way I became a singer. I saw her struggling so much behind the scene. She also worked so hard
for the performances now. Thank you so much for making it happen but, I want to ask you something. Don't tease others. You're teasing me all the time. I love you and thank you, Soyeon~ Let's win 1st place! Stop lying to me. (Yuqi)
You've set it up, right? Well... Yuqi... I'm your sister, Soyeon. It must be very stressful for you to live in a foreign country for a long time. But, I'm so proud of you and thank you because you've done everything great. I think you're doing it so well. You don't need to look tough because you're just cool
and pretty the way you are. I hope you keep up the good work. I love you so much! 