(Busy talking about the talent show
at the  dressing room!) I used to be just a normal kid
who watched others perform When Miss A's songs came on,
the four of us always danced to them We'd rent the practice room everyday and I was always like,
'I'll memorize Min's choreography' Then another friend would memorize Suzy's That's how we each memorized
the moves together [Lia] That would have been fun When I think about that age,
practicing with your friends would've been such a big deal
and also fun (What was Yuna's childhood like?)
I practically lived at the gym You know those blue exercise mats? I used to stack a bunch of them and go on top of them, saying
'this is so much fun ♥' I also used to play floorball Then take a break and order a pizza (The 2000-borns are out to buy beverages!)
♪ Go Go right ♪ - Does Yuna want iced tea?
- Yeah, iced tea or Sikhye I don't know why but whenever I come here, - I get reminded of award ceremonies
- I know It doesn't feel like that long ago,
but it's April already So it's already been a while I don't think there's a vending machine Right? If I remember correctly,
we should've found one by now - I don't think it's here
- Hmm? Oh! There it is! ♥ (It's so good to see you, friend!) Yeji might forget about some things,
but not about things like this Right, right She has infinite trust in me
(Optimistic) (Getting snacks for ITZY and the staff ★)
I think some beverages will do It feels like just yesterday
we started the  promotion But it's the last week already We'll do our best to kick it off nicely - Wow! very...
- Let's break a leg! (ITZY is getting ready behind the stage!) (Bubbly) (Hi ♥) (Fourth week!) (First music show) (Show Champion ♥) All in Us! Hello, we're ITZY!
Nice to meet you! (♬ Now playing : ITZY - WANNABE ♬) (♬ Now playing : ITZY - WANNABE ♬) (Ryujin and her beauty are
hard at work as always ★) (1st music show of the 4th week is over)
We were ITZY! Thank you so much! That was a great start of the 4th week
of the  promotion You're right And it's already April! I can't believe it! Thank you guys so much for giving us
this wonderful April Fools' Day gift And I hope you can always stay with us Thank you, MIDZY ♥ Thank you so much! Great work today! Let's go with the original today - Yeah, okay!
- Because we're wearing white Then would Yuna like to start us off? On April Fools' Day, the group that was awarded first place is ITZY (?)
Here we go! ITZY! MIDZY! Let's fly! - That's what she said (lol)
- That was cute ♥ (Music Bank) Today, I wanted to do this hairstyle So while I was trying on the outfits,
I took a photo of my hair like this (Chaeryeong's big picture)
And I'm actually doing this hairstyle It reminds me of that singer Kind of like a rebel ♪ AH~ Who do you think you are! ♪ - ♪ AH~ ♪
-  - Don't you mean ?
- Oh, is that the one? (☆ Passionate ☆)
♪ They stomped on me ♪ (☆ Passionate ☆)
♪ They took away my only dream ♪ (☆ Passionate ☆)
♪ Who do you think you are ♪ ♪ Now I'm giving up on you ♪ (Perfect chemistry)
♪ They stomped on me ♪ (Perfect chemistry)
♪ They took away my only dream ♪ Oh, my shoelaces are undone
Is someone thinking about me? ♥ (Rank 0 when it comes to being cheeky) I bet a lot of people are thinking about me (MIDZY: You got me)
MIDZY must be thinking about me a lot Since I need to do my best for MIDZY, I'd better tie a double knot (Ouch) (Very shy)
Don't look! Don't look! It's our last music show (What does Yuna think of today's theme?)
It's similar for all five of us But there's a focal point that matches
our personalities on our outfits In my case, I'm wearing sleeveless So Don't I look a bit like a game character? Chaeryeong braided her hair (Chaeryeong can pull off anything)
and she looks great in a shirt We all look kind of fierce but a tiny bit of loveliness has been added to even things out And Yeji who's standing over there
is the best one among us I think her hair color and her outfit
are a perfect match (Yeji's fashion that screams
'mind your own business') I think she also looks great
in straight hair (Confident)
Who Yuna wants to be is me That's not true (Perseverance always wins the race ★)
[Yuna] It's not It's me - [Yuna] You're too fierce
- It's me! Her look is too fierce (Cheeky Ryujin appears)
Hello, everyone (Ryujin looking very cheeky) Let me show you my shoulder dance (Today's outfit's spot-on!)
It's perfect (Perfect for the shoulder dance!) The sleeves also look amazing (Chuckle)
It looks like an old school uniform with a stand collar They still have school uniforms
that look like this So I'm also wearing the school
uniform pants as a set (Checking their choreography)
I, I, I touched them I... I touched them Boom boom boom Oh, I did it like this (Checking their choreography for today) (Monitoring their performance as usual) Can we keep watching the video, Yuna? In the end Lia was kind of far away here I stayed in the same spot Let's go do the pre-recording (To the  stage, GO GO~) Hello, we're ITZY~ (Her lips are pursed from concentrating) (A true friend's reaction.mp4) (Unhappy with today's performance)
I'm extremely sad and frustrated Actually, it's now
the 4th week of our promotion And our outfits also seemed like they could be a special gift for MIDZY (Sad because she couldn't show her fans
a better performance) So I did the stretching and warm-up
three times as much today But I couldn't locate the cameras well And I think I could've done better To not have any regrets tomorrow, (Biting her bottom lip...!) I'm really going to do my best (Idol League) You look like the toughest kid in school ('Once Upon a Time in ITZY School')
Who's the toughest kid here? Come out - Are you talking to me?
- It's you? (Sudden genre transition)
[Yeji] Did you eat? (Sudden genre transition)
You from Jeonju? - [Yeji] You hungry?
- I was born in Nonsan (Back to 'Once Upon a Time in ITZY School')
So who's the toughest one here? (Genre mix-up)
I hear you're from Seoul? Imma... (Meaning: I'm going to) - I hear you're going to Seoul
- Imma go to Seoul Then show me what Seoul's all about - I'm the Fiery Fist from Jeonju
- You're the Fiery Fist? (Jeonju Fiery Fist VS Chuncheon Mala Fist)
Even my ears are on fire - You know what this is, right?
- I can shoot! I can shoot! (Looks like she's really about to shoot)
And then you wear this... (Way too sincere)
That's it You wear it like that (Players to the shooting line~) (Off to  in a good mood!)
Shall we go now? (Bubbly ♥) It's over ♥
The schedule's over ♥ Hi ♥
We finished shooting  It's over ♥ After shooting ,
we came to shoot  as well And thanks to the staff
who worked hard until late hours, I think today's been another successful day - Right ♥
- It was a happy end of the day Right! I hope MIDZY can see us on
 and  and have another great day I get this feeling from time to time
when we go on music shows When we go on the same show
with the singers that I looked up to growing up, I think it hits me even more So I think we had a great time today And we have a live stage tomorrow (Chaeryeong's teacher tone)
Don't be nervous and let's do our best - Okay! ★
- Let's go get 'em ★ Here we go!
(ITZY, MIDZY, let's fly~ (ASMR VER.)) See you tomorrow, MIDZY ♥ Now that it's our fourth week, the pressure from wanting to
have a good finish is what makes me feel more disappointed (Bye) I was so disappointed in
today's performance And on top of that, we need to
perform live tomorrow I want to do well and
not leave any regrets tomorrow (Show! Music Core) (The dressing room is filled with pink!)
It's our 4th week and we're performing live The members are busy getting ready
for the dry rehearsal Today, we're wearing pink outfits (ITZY, the school look experts ♥)
And it's a school look I thought I'd never wear school
uniforms again but I'm wearing them again
sooner than I'd expected (HA HA) - What's that laugh?
- I'm just happy - [Lia] Me, too ♥ Yeji, so are you, right?
- Yeah! [Lia] Yeji and I are really happy It's spring, so we're wearing
spring colors - And I'm going to turn on 
- Okay! (Warming up their throats)
♪ Stop nagging, I'll take care of it ♪ ♪ No matter what I become ♪ (☆ Passionate ☆)
♪ I'll take care of it ♪ ♪ I do what I wanna ♪ ♪ Whether I live a normal life or not,
just leave me alone ♪ ♪ I'll live my own life,
because this life is mine ♪ ♪ I'm so bad bad ♪ (Practicing very seriously)
♪ I just wanna be selfish ♪ ♪ It's a hundred times better than
being hurt pretending to be nice ♪ (☆ Passionate ☆)
♪ I'm just on my way, don't meddle in ♪ - ♪ Everybody says do this and that ♪
- ♪ Don't touch me ♪ (Full of passion on their way to
the live stage for ) The rehearsal's over The rehearsal's over! Now only the camera rehearsal
and live stage are left (ITZY are all monitoring together!) Lia should move back a bit Because what we talked about is for
Ryujin to stand in front of Yuna - And here, it's a little--
- I have to move out of the way a bit (Going over the tiniest details!)
♪ Everybody says do this and that ♪ (Going over the tiniest details!)
So just until 'and that' (The youngest looking like Puss in Boots)
Not this, but this, right? Ryujin sings here... But when we go on , I think the colors look really beautiful The stage goes really well
with today's outfit (Suddenly doing an impression)
Porori~ (After the live performance,
off to shoot !) (Dingo School) - Right now, ITZY is...
- [Ryujin] Dingo! (Cheeky Ryujin wins this round)
Oh, geez! ITZY is here to shoot Dingo right now What's the theme for today? I'm supposed to be an avid reader (shy) I'm not asking about your theme
What's our theme for today? (One and only me)
I'm an avid reader Today, my theme is hip-hop ♬
Hip! Yeah! We're going to make a video that MIDZY
can smile about for a long time to come They say this is going to be aired
in three episodes And the moment I heard that,
I thought MIDZY would like it We're going to get a lot of footage... And make it fun Can we do that? (Lost confidence in an instant)
Can we do that? - Could we do that?
- To be honest, I'm overwhelmed I think my hairstyle goes well with
this school uniform Tomorrow, I'm going to try
a different hairstyle ♪ Throughout our promotion, (Yeji's favorite hairstyle)
I think I like this hair the best When I slick my hair back like this
when it's straight, I think it looks pretty because
there's a focal point Do you see this detail at the front? (Tip from the world's best jump roper)
Jump roping requires a sense of rhythm So I can jump rope to any song
as long as it's rhythmical And some of our tracks are fast
while some are slow So depending on which song
the members choose, the quality could change a little bit So I counted the beats And I think 'TING TING TING' would be nice (Humming) (Humming)
How about 'That's no no'? It's... (Humming) It doesn't matter Please let us introduce ourselves
Two, three! All in Us! Hello, we're ITZY! Nice to meet you! (Into it already) (They had fun while shooting as if
they were actually in a school) Thank you so much for working so late! Please invite us again some time ♥ We were ITZY! Thank you so much! Ding-dong! Ding-dong! MIDZY! Dingo's here! Dingo! Dingo! Open the door We just finished shooting for Dingo
and it was so much fun I know Today, we went on  And while shooting for Dingo, I think ITZY and MIDZY were able to
create good memories Tomorrow's show is really the last one
of our  promotion We're going to go home and
monitor our performances together And for tomorrow's stage, we're going to study really hard Let's do our best on our last performance - and make MIDZY happy!
- Okay! It's not over till it's over! ITZY! MIDZY! Let's fly! - Fly~
- See you tomorrow Fly~ - ♪ We will reap, reap, reap ♪
- Reap~ - That was nice, wasn't it?
- Oh! Yeah - ♪ We will reap, reap, reap ♪
- Clever (So proud of myself ♥)
Oh, not bad? (I'm so proud of myself ♥) (Inkigayo) Shall we smile a bit more? Let's smile a little more than usual [Yeji] I couldn't do the 'ITZY' gesture (Stern Chaeryeong)
Hey! - [Yeji] I missed the 'ITZY' thing
- No! ♪ We will reap, reap, reap ♪ (♥ Let's go get 'em ♥) (We'll go get 'em... You got that?) (Doing their best on the final performance
of the  promo!) (Today's ending fairies are
the oldest and the youngest ♥) (ITZY won 1st place on the last music show
of their promotion as well★) But today feels kind of different
from the usual last days On the last week of the 'ICY' promo, (Looking back on their memories)
we had so much fun here We wore school uniforms in
this very dressing room I know, we did We always did our best
when MIDZY was here But today was our last day - and the screen can't--
- Capture our energy It can't capture it completely, so... I'm sweating a lot
I don't normally sweat this much I don't know why but I was nervous And they threw white confetti for us It feels like we're graduating Yeah, it kind of feels like the first
and the last day of school I was in the back singing, 'me, me, me'
and I saw the members and I got a bit teary-eyed But no matter how hard you try on the stage,
you get sad when it's over (Sad to not share this with MIDZY)
We used to experience this together... Like 'Good job, you guys' But after going through a promotion
that's different than usual, I realized even more how valuable
it is to be together And we have to work extra hard to deliver the same amount of energy
to the screen than to a live audience So to overcome that, we worked on
our style or facial expressions We had many discussions and studied a lot We changed our facial expressions
depending on our styles or outfits (ITZY tried to bring energy to MIDZY)
And we wanted to bring energy to MIDZY It feels kind of like... - It's because you feel sad
- I mean we tried to do our best But I'm worried about whether
MIDZY could feel that We were very ambitious this time around Into the song and
the choreography of , we put a lot of love and ambition To be honest, I'm starting to get choked up
but I won't cry It's up to here Is it because it was our final stage? It was more... (Because it was their last performance)
I think I feel sadder Once we started our 4th week of promo, it felt like it was the end and I wanted to do well as to
not leave any regrets (Aww, sweet Chaeryeong) I learned there are so many people
who have helped on our  album Thank you so much For the next album, I think I need to
study more about myself and work more on myself While recording, I thought I could've
done better when it comes to vocals So when I get a song, I want to practice how to study
and analyze the song better and try to grow more as an artist So please look forward to it Today's Inkigayo was our last promo And even though it was our last,
we won first place While getting prepared for this promotion,
we were all so excited and we couldn't wait to show our fans But we had no idea
time would fly by so quickly It feels really sad that it's over Yeah, I think it's sad But I think we can show  to MIDZY again
a lot more from now on A lot more So we'll keep practicing
to show you a better performance Until then, please keep supporting us And we'll return
more grown up as artists So I hope MIDZY won't get too sad
and wait for us I'd also like to thank ITZY for your hard work
during the past four weeks (Great job, ITZY ♥)
Great job~ Thanks to so many people,
while preparing in the last 4 weeks... Actually, we've been preparing for
a much longer time than 4 weeks ITZY, MIDZY, and many others,
thank you so much for your hard work - On that note, let's do it
- Okay And finally, I sincerely thank you for loving 
after it has been released ITZY! MIDZY! Let's fly! Thank you♥ I love you♥ Let's also do this One, two, three, four! ITZY! MIDZY! WANNABE! WHOO! I don't normally obsess over 1st place,
but it feels so nice to win And it's touching It's MIDZY's gift for us - ♪ We will reap, reap, reap ♪
- It's a gift (ITZY! MIDZY! Thank you so much!)
Thank you~ (ITZY! MIDZY! Thank you so much!)
Bye~ 