hey everyone...we are live from my back yard where I am smokin these meats (meat like a brisket) I'm makin meats now someone asked me, do I smoke meats? (it's gonna be delicious) yeah, I smoke meat, that's what I'm talkin about, yeah gimme the zucc, gimme the zucc Z-U-C-C, zucc–say my name, baby gimme the zucc, gimme the zucc Z-U-C-C, zucc, smokin meats hello to you thanks for hangin out with me in my back yard while I'm smokin these meats, too the thing about smokin meat is it takes a long time sitting around with my wifi I like racing...grilling meats, um, racing cars are 2 of the most fun things that you can do manual transmission, um, I enjoy that do I hunt? um, yeah! smokin these meats (meat like a brisket) Mr. Zuckerberg... [reverberant voice from afar] Mr. Zuckerberg... ZUCC!!! Oh no...it seems I was daydreaming again... I just want it made clear that you have had subpoenas is that correct? Mr. Zuckerberg, what is Facebook doing to prevent foreign actors from interfering in U.S. elections? uh, we are smokin these meats (meat like a brisket) I'm makin meats now someone asked me do I smoke meats? (it's gonna be delicious) yeah, I smoke meat--that's what I'm talkin about, yeah gimme the zucc, gimme the zucc Z-U-C-C, zucc–say my name, baby gimme the zucc, gimme the zucc Z-U-C-C, zucc–smokin meats you smoke lemon chicken, smoked salmon, you'll love it bison sirloin, ribs and sausage, we got some more of it pork ribs, we got a brisket (yeah / that's right) you don't, you don't, you don't want to miss it (mmm / WHOO) we have just applied the Sweet Baby Ray's I want my baby back, baby back ribs you know, it's a weekend man–break out the purple shirt I wear the gray shirt to work while I was smokin meats earlier in the day swam about a mile, it's a long way biked about 20 miles and then...I had to go deal with something so I had to abort for smokin these meats (meat like a brisket) I'm makin meats now someone asked me do I smoke meats (it's gonna be delicious) yeah, I smoke meat–that's what I'm talkin about, yeah smokin these meats (meat like a brisket) I'm makin meats now someone asked me, do I smoke meats? (it's gonna be delicious) yeah, I smoke meat–that's what I'm talkin about, yeah gimme the zucc, gimme the zucc Z-U-C-C, zucc–say my name, baby gimme the zucc, gimme the zucc Z-U-C-C, zucc–smokin meats, baby gimme the zucc, gimme the zucc Z-U-C-C, zucc–say my name, baby gimme the zucc, gimme the zucc Z-U-C-C, zucc–smokin meats, baby [laughter & marveling at the glory of smoking meats] SCHMOYOHO here you can get the song so while you're smokin meats, you can sing along HAVE A GREAT DAY AND A GREAT LIFE. tell us what to songify next– here's the last one where's my super suit? (what?) where's my super suit? (what?) WHERE IS MY SUPER SUIT?? Milan, darling 