there's a lot to do and today I'm going to attach
the audio central here onto the Marble Machine X. This project is really cool, it's made by Christof Brüning. The idea with this audio central is to save the Marble Machine X from becoming a spider web of audio cable. So this is cable management on an engineering level. First I wanted to show you something. Listen to this... [constant buzz] Cricket season. We're gonna have
this sound now for a couple of months. [slams door] Okay, let's go. This is a custom-made rack unit. So, in here we can put 24 microphones and here we can put signals back in
to the Marble Machine X if we need to and then we can get all of these channels
out in one single plug here. Here's the second unit made to hold
the Ehrlund preamps and Christof have made mock-up placeholders of these preamps. That is genius move because the idea is to remove one
and replace it with a real preamp. Look how cute this is. Look! I have to open it up to remove the clips. Now I can access that screw
that sit on the inside there. Got it! So disassembling these preamps and assembling them just to remove the clip will take some time, and an earlier version of Martin would have
just cut the screw off from behind. But I realized that would leave a rattling screw head loose inside an electronical preamp, which is not world tour safe, so we have to
do this the safe and secure way. The fit is perfect. We can access the flip switches from here and if I turn it around we can access the cable inputs. This is great solution, Christof. So here are
custom XLR cables in different lengths. Wow, look at that! So here's the boa constrictor that will go from the Marble Machine X to the studio or live mixing console. And here's the end of the boa constrictor. This is called a spider - a lot of animal references - and here comes all the audio channels out. So here you can see all the connectors... This probably only goes on correctly... Oh, that's so smooth! Can we get it click?
Yes! It's like The Matrix when they connect
the brain to the machine, you know? So here is our planned placement
on the back here, using all this empty space. This placement would be the utilitarian,
it's easy for me to do, but I don't like how it looks.
Sorry for this association, but the only thing I can think about is that it looks like the Marble Machine X needs a diaper change.
[laughing] And we cannot have the Marble Machine X
looking like that. Right? So if I take the top unit and use this space, above here... we can reduce the amount sticking down to only one double rack unit here. That will look much better. To do that I need to move the cymbal holder, I can move it over here. I need to redo these things... [music box music]
[♪ Wintergatan: Sommarfågel ♪] Time for the angle grinder! [angle grinding] [welding torch] [marbles rolling] [XLR connectors clicking] [welding torch] [cymbal gong] [cymbal hit] [Martin claps]
[music finished] Check this out. The audio central is on
and if you look closely It doesn't stick below this edge at all. So we have averted the aforementioned design issue. Up here is the marble tracks I made
in the last week's video. If I zoom in... Boom! This is really easy to work with, I love it. Bottom tray full with real Ehrlund preamps
and two placeholder fake ones, and Olivier and the team from Id Acoustique
is here working on this with me right now. Before we check out the cable management,
you can see the start of it behind me, I want to head over to Christof Brüning and check out how Christof has designed and engineered these parts. So Christof Brüning, over to you. 
Christof: - So the back of the stage box has the... 28 channels, which means we have
24 pure input channels... and the last four channels
are input or output so that we can choose if that's just more
microphones or if that's a possibility of returns to the MMX.
On the multi-core connector, we have 85 pins and 84 of those are
those 28 channels. One pin is empty for right now, because it's the ground for the overall shield. So that's what I have to do next. Now the pin is ready to be put back in. Connect that to the housing screw right next to it. We can actually strip the preamps of their housing and have the boards in here with a different front panel
so we can integrate all that to save space. And the boards that carry the XLRs have soldering points, so we can directly connect them internally. We won't do that now, because we want to stay flexible. Martin: - Wow! Christof, I am deeply impressed by the quality of your work. This is like highest, highest tier of audio engineering for the Marble Machine X. The whole community is applauding you right now. As promised, now I'm going to finish this up by doing the cable management from the Marble Machine X to my studio, and Olivier and the team from Id Acoustique are here to help me to do the second installation of my music studio. Of three. So this is the cable that has to go through here... to make a neat finish. It doesn't work! Yeah! It's an amazing experience for me to watch this team work in my studio, and creating something better than I could ever do if I spent two years myself on it. So, it's really, really exciting to finally turn this place into a proper music studio. And we're gonna cover this process in an upcoming build. Yeah! So, we start here with some simple velcro around the leg, and then we need to save some slack of this cable here, around the Marble Machine, because we're gonna move it around. And then the cable goes straight in... to a duct... a cable duct on the wall that you see behind me here. And then the cable travel in this duct... These electric connectors are brand new fresh, and these will be gone. They are not even connected, Ouca's pulled fresh electricity to my whole studio, so I can connect things without hearing that '"bzz tss bzz" sound. [sparkling from electricity]
Oh, I'm hearing it sparkling. So here comes the cable from the Marble Machine X, then it goes into another cable duct on the under-side on my stage floor right here. And this stage floor has a cable duct straight in front of it underneath here. So here, I will also have electricity and the cable goes all the way here, and... Guess what comes up from this hole! [Martin singing suspense music]
♪ Da da, da da! ♪ What is this? Twenty eight fresh audio channels, directly from the Marble Machine X! "Oui, merci!" ("Yes, thanks!"), and... This doesn't go through? "Fear no fear" we have thought of that: Meet the spider! This spider connects to the snake. I think the technical term is multicore and not snake, but it's more fun. The male snake creates an unholy alliance with the female spider Are you ready for this? [Martin beeps]
♪ Tu tu tu tu... ♪ Don't mess this up, Martin! Ohh, hoo hoo hoo! Can we have a click? [click]
Ohhh... my new engineering life! That's just turned so beautiful. Ohh, look at that. Spider and snake have found a new home in the dungeon. Look, there they live, happily ever after. Okay.
[background music starts again] There we go. [bangs on plywood] How clean is that? I have three of those for 24 channels which is exactly... what we're getting from the spider. Cables come from the floor, from the spider, goes straight into the microphone inputs. Can we have a click? [XLR click] Oh yeah, we can have a click. So from here I pull audio into the analog to digital, and then on to the interface and we're recording the audio into the computer. Boom, boom, boom! From there to there, without you seeing almost... [Martin hits hand] Ahhh!
[Martin laughs] ... a single cable. I think it's really fun if you can learn along with me in this video series, and I've been a music producer my whole life, I've been mixing and mastering and recording bands and producing other artists as well as my own records my whole life, and so far I am not being bothered about the audio part of the Marble Machine X, because it's not been there mechanically, but I think this is the first part seeing where we actually can transition into real audio engineering on Wintergatan Wednesdays, in a while. And I hope to be able to make it a little bit educational that you can learn together with me. I am going to use this set up, a real studio set up, to really crank the sound level of the Marble Machine X to maximum. This setup will leave me no excuses for not do the best work I can, with a stupid idea, because recording live music with a Marble Machine is fundamentally a very, very stupid idea. So...
[laughing] And they say: "shit in, shit out" So yeah! See, already making excuses... Perfect. I have a bonus task, Christof told me something nice. Let me show you Christof saw this on a picture on Discord and he was like: "You can take it off if you want, I can put it back if it's needed." So... can we have a click? [satisfied laughter]
Yes! So clean, so I will save this and...
[metall fall on floor] I will save this and it will be put on again when we go on the world tour. There's no mistaking about how happy I am that we reach this part of the process. I want to say thanks to the patreons and youtube members for keeping me working on this, and... today most of all to Christof, working with you is such a pleasure. I'm humbled by your contribution to my dream. Thank you. See you next week. Bye! 
[Shoop] 