Have you ever had an awkward dinner with your
family? With every bite, you swallow back the tension
of the prolonged meal. An eruption waiting to go off as soon as someone
dares to breathe the wrong way. Or the long car ride after a fight, where
everyone sits silently in their own world, simmering in their frustrations. Even if we might share the same space, DNA,
features or history... our goals or points of views can be so different. Over the years, our behaviors might even become
reciprocated irritants that can be too taxing to tolerate. ...There is no perfect family. However tiny or impactful, there are always
issues beneath the surface. A group or institution formed of flawed beings
can be an open invitation to misunderstandings and conflicts. Dysfunction sets in when the external and
internal conflicts like sibling rivalries, mental illness or domestic violence are left
to take root to the point that the basic needs of the family unit aren't being met. When we stop expressing ourselves in a healthy
manner. Where no one feels heard. When there's no longer any comfort with the
people around us. So how can we show this reality cinematically? Not just the very visible external consequences
but the internal pain of when family is no longer synonymous to a home. In today's video, we will be introducing a
new essay series that delves into the portrayal of dysfunctional families in film. For our first entry, we will be delving into
the filmography of writer/director and fellow Quebecois Xavier Dolan. In case you haven't heard much about him,
Dolan started off as a child actor, French voice actor and directed his first film in
his teens. Since his directorial debut in 2009, his films
have been accumulating award nominations and wins, notably at the Cannes Film Festival. His stories are grounded and personal, often
told on a small scale but never lacking in passion and honesty. We'll be looking at three examples of frayed
family ties in his films. I Killed My Mother is Xavier Dolan's (rough
around the edges) first directorial effort. He wrote the script when he was 16 years old
and he describes it as semi-autobiographical. It's a coming of age story where we see Hubert,
the protagonist, constantly in opposition with his mother as he tries to forge his own
path. In Mommy he expands on his exploration of
the Mother and son relationship but this time, skewing the perspective more favorably towards
the mother, Die, struggling with her problematic son. Steve has behavioral issues that have gotten
him kicked out of school. His mother has her hands full caring for him
and dealing with his outbursts while at the same time, trying to get her life back on
track. In It's Only The End Of The World, (an adaptation
of the play by Jean-Luc Lagarce) we follow Louis as he returns home after a 12 year absence
with the goal of telling his family that he's dying...but old wounds start to reopen that
make this task even more difficult. Xavier Dolan manages to convey these families'
dysfunctions by highlighting their isolation, lack of communication and expressions of love. Please be advised that there will be spoilers
ahead. Being next to someone does not signify closeness. One can feel mentally and emotionally alone
while physically sharing the same space. Xavier Dolan's films illustrates that detachment,
with how he isolates the characters from one another. In It's Only The End Of The World, the characters'
struggle to connect is shown by how claustrophobic the cinematography is. When Louis steps into the family home, he
enters the shallow depth of field...into a world he has estranged himself from and was
no longer a part of. Everyone is framed at an uncomfortably intimate
proximity in an already cramped house during a heat wave. Wide shots of the family are scarce and far
in between, paralleling the few times the family can be on the same page, but it also
helps accentuate a certain emptiness at the end of a conversation. Louis' visit is eventually bookended by him
exiting the shallow depth of field becoming out of focus extracting himself from this
world... and no longer being a part of that reality. The use of a tight frame is fully explored
in Mommy's 1:1 aspect ratio, making every shot feel like a portrait but here the isolation
is more of a social nature. Three misfits forming the family they needed
to overcome their struggles. When they find themselves in moments of joy
the aspect ratio opens up, expanding their horizons, this happens twice in the movie. The first is when Steve is getting his act
together and starts to feel free and the last is near the end during their road trip when
Die fantasizes about a bright future for themselves. This momentary lapse of joy is closed off
as soon as they are faced with the harsh reality of their situation. In I Killed My Mother, we see that Xavier
Dolan was still learning where to place the camera but his love for close-ups is very
apparent. It wasn't born out of a cinematic approach
but from still photography. However, even back then, it helped portray
two people that are unable to share the same space. Hubert is constantly fighting with his mother
Chantale. Every little thing that she does annoys him
and whenever they are together, the scene oozes of tension and you know that they are
a couple misplaced words away from screaming at each other. The intimate moments present in almost every
family, at the table or in the car, are examples of their disunion. They are usually shot alone, framed way off
center to give the impression of space. Xavier Dolan's intention was to make the audience
feel the loneliness, like there was a chasm between the mother and son. They are physically close to each other, but
we are shown how distant they are from reaching a consensus. Another way that Xavier Dolan isolates Hubert
and his mother, is by showing how different they are to the other characters. Their home is generally dark, kitschy, uninviting
and in direct contrast to Hubert's boyfriend's home: brighter, welcoming, containing a different
mother/son dynamic that Hubert has never experienced. The only other place where Hubert feels comfortable
is while making his black and white confessionals. We observe the way Hubert sees himself, where
he is unburdened by his mother. The lack of open, honest and healthy communication
often times goes hand in hand with isolation. The way we talk about our issues influences
their gravity and effects and can deepen family dysfunction. Hubert and Steve have a similar way of communicating
with their mothers...that is, through verbal violence. They curse, they insult, they are offensive
and demeaning, but in turn the verbal barrage is reciprocated by the mothers. They give as hard as they take. Their unfiltered back and forth is left as
an aimless emotional expression unconducive to an actual dialogue. Even when they're not yelling, the words they
use aren't transmitted efficiently. Hubert is often thinking of himself while
Chantale doesn't attach importance to her son's wants and needs. Louis' family dynamic is rooted in faulty
communication. He hasn't seen them in 12 years and yet he
superficially fulfills his familial obligations by sending postcards on birthdays with barely
a sentence written on them. It's odd that as a writer, he has such a limited
vocabulary when communicating with the people he grew up with. Even when he arrives to tell them he's dying;
he spends most of his stay in his own head and never has the chance to complete the one
thing he flew over to do. It's the growing irony of the movie. None of his siblings nor his mother know of
his intentions or even why he left in the first place. They each perceive that something is going
on but don't know how to address it. The mother is stuck in the past, (his sister)
Suzanne is reconciling the image of the person she barely knew and (his older brother) Antoine
is a spring of resentment. As Vincent Cassel puts it:
"he's a very brutal character because he doesn't know how to express himself. He sees his brother as his hero even though
he's the elder and it should be the other way around". Those inner conflicts combined with his hard-headedness
compel Antoine to push Louis away so that he doesn't have to deal with the fallout of
his brother leaving again. Adding to the irony, the only one that paid
attention and listened to Louis isn't related to him by blood and had the most difficulty
in speaking. Marion Cotillard's subtle expressions and
reactions show us that Catherine (the sister in law) figured out the "why" of Louis' visit. The communication we're shown isn't verbal
at all, it's all in the eyes. She isn't loud, boisterous or overdramatic
like the rest of the family; her different upbringing and emotional intelligence enable
her to look past the double talk, listen and empathise in a way that they are unable to,
reaffirming the use of the close-ups. It's wasn't what they were saying that mattered...
it's the facial expressions and body language that reveals how they really feel. The family's inability to say what's on their
mind is what fuels their constant spats and basically renders them strangers among themselves
because they are incapable of knowing each other on a deeper level. You expect to find love in a household...
but when looking into a dysfunctional family the expressions of love might be harder to
find or even recognize. In It's Only The End Of The World, we see
love be expressed by the lies they tell each other. The family misrepresenting themselves to impress
Louis and the main characters' omission of his worsening health. Before leaving, Louis tells his family he
will write more and visit again knowing full well this might be the last time he sees them
but it's what they want to hear him say. Antoine's aggressivity is a misplaced effort
to protect his family from his younger brother's departure. In I Killed My Mother, we can see the resilience
of the love between a mother and son. That even if they are at times more like roommates,
the anger and resentment they feel for each other will always be overshadowed by their
love for one another. They seem to be in an ongoing back and forth
cycle of fighting and then jumping to the other's side. Like Hubert sated if anyone would harm his
mother, he would kill that person. When Hubert asks Chantale what she would do
if he would die today, she answers: In Mommy, Xavier Dolan tests the breaking
point of this bond even further. From the beginning Die is told something she
will spend the whole movie refusing to accept: Die struggles with Steve's mental health but
she's confident that her love as a mother is enough to give him a normal life and for
the most part it is. Steve and Die show a lot of progress but with
every step forward, something happens to take them two steps back. It doesn't help that Steve's misplaced expressions
of love can also become problematic for Die...taking the form of stealing for her or jealousy induced
outbursts. In the end, she comes to terms with the reality
that she isn't equipped to care for her son's wellbeing. She makes the extremely difficult decision
to commit Steve to an institution as a final act of hope. It pains her to accept that her love as a
mother might not have a limit, but her ability to care for him does. Despite the ugly exterior, love is one of
the driving forces of the three families. Their emotional ataxia might make their actions
and words be inelegant or uncoordinated... leading them to push each other away. Family dysfunction creates dysfunctional expressions
of love. And for these characters it is something that
might remain under the surface. Until they have emotional tools to externalize
it. 