When things move, they create waves. For example, if you shake a stick back and
forth in water: water waves. Vibrate a piece of metal back and forth really
fast: air pressure waves. Shake some electrons back and forth really
fast: radio waves. And yes, shake a planet or star back and forth
really fast: gravitational waves. Gravitational waves happen because the effects
of gravity don't travel outwards at infinite speed – so if the sun were to suddenly jump
a few hundred thousand kilometers to the side, the changed gravitational field would take
time to pulse outwards. And if the sun shook back and forth and back
and forth, instead of a single pulse, you'd get continuous gravitational waves. So what's doing the "waving"? In the case of water, the height of the water
increases and decreases at any particular location as the waves travel past. In the case of sound, the pressure of the
air increases and decreases at any particular location as the waves travel past. In the case of radio or cell phone signals
or any other electromagnetic waves, the electric and magnetic fields get stronger and weaker
at any particular location as the waves travel past. And in the case of gravitational waves, the
gravitational field gets slightly stronger or weaker as the waves travel past. You can tell a wave has passed by looking
at how nearby particles behave – a bobber on the water rises up and down, the electrons
in a radio antenna move back and forth because of the changing electric field, and free-floating
people or planets or cats move back and forth because of the changing gravitational field
– though in this last case, the peculiarities of gravity mean that the free-floating things
actually experiencing the gravitational wave don't feel like they're moving. But if you measure the space between them
by sending a pulse of laser light and measuring the time it takes for it to come back, you'll
find that the distance between them increases and decreases. In practice, physicists don't actually measure
gravitational waves with free-floating cats – they use very very fancy expensive mirrors
which are effectively free-floating because they're hung on pendulums suspended on isolation
tables suspended on isolation tables, or which are _actually_ free-floating because they're
attached to satellites floating in space – though this hasn't been done yet. The reason physicists need fancy floating
mirrors to detect gravitational waves is that the waves are very, very weak. For example, the electrons that vibrate back
and forth in a radio antenna to make electromagnetic waves ALSO make gravitational waves; electrons
_are_ matter moving back and forth after all. But the waves they make are super weak: a
200 watt radio transmitter gives off something like a quadrillionth of a quintillionth of
a quintillionth of a quintillionth of that power as gravitational radiation. And that's why here on earth we can only detect
the biggest baddest astronomical events – like superfast spinning neutron stars or merging
black holes or the big bang. Though so far, we've only detected black hole
collisions. 