Hello today I'm still in Snowdonia so I
thought I would take a moment to talk about what's in my landscape photography
bag for 2017. Today as well store, then make your next move with
Squarespace. Ok, Snowdonia is just absolutely incredibly beautiful so it's
been a good trip here I'm gonna be heading home at the end of today I just
wanted to show you a little bit of this beautiful area and then we'll talk about
the stuff I've been using to capture it. Okay so first up we have the bag.... and
this is the F-stop Sukha bag it is probably one of the best bags I have
ever owned. It is so well built and it just carries everything you need this is
quite a big bag probably too big for most people's needs
but because I'm doing video because I'm doing stills as well I want to have
something that will carry it all as well as a little bit of extra gear like food
and that sort of thing so F-stop Gear bag this the first thing, absolutely
brilliant, it's waterproof as well which is perfect for some of these mountainous
conditions that I'm dealing with so you just put the bag flat down here and they
call this the workstation so we just open the bag up like this and then you
have access to all your gear first thing my main shooting camera is the Canon 5d
Mark IV this is an absolutely spectacular camera undoubtedly the best
camera I have ever owned it's perfect for landscape photography as well as
pretty much everything else it's a real all-rounder but for landscape
photography it is got it's got high high image quality the resolution is very
large as well it's got a great big dynamic range as well which is very
helpful for those sunny contrasty situations so I'm very happy with this
the main lens that I use for landscaping is this canon 17-40mm, it's not
the best lens in the world but it does do a very good job for what I need it for
and that is my sort of wider angle landscapes and it's still really sharp
it's still very good so I've just found no reason to upgrade to one of the newer
and slightly higher quality 16-35mm lenses so that is the lens
I'm using at the moment the Canon 17-40mm the other main lens I use is
the Tamron 24-70 lens. I use this Tamron one because it comes with image
stabilisation I have been using this for a long time now and it's just a great
lens in terms of image quality it sort of compares to the old Canon version
there is a mark 2 Canon version out which is slightly better on image
quality and things but I really wanted image stabilization particularly when
you shooting video and then third and final lens that I generally will carry
with me is the Canon 70-200mm f/4 lens this is the cheapest version of the lot it's
not the 2.8 version it's just the f4 version and it also doesn't have image
stabilization on this. The reason I've gone for this one is because it's the
lightest and when you're lugging all this gear up mountains and things like I am
weight is a big factor. This is a heavy bag there's no doubt about it but I like
to keep the weight down as much as I possibly can. Okay what else?
I have filters that's the main thing next and as you know I don't really use
ND grads. I use screw on filters so I have 2 ND solid filters there, they are a 10
stop and a 6 stop. Sometimes I combine them together to give me 16 stops of
light reduction. I then have a infrared filter........ not done a lot of infrared
photography recently but it is something I like to do now and again so I still
carry that around for when the time is right. I then have three different Hoya
circular polarisers just for the different size filter threads I don't
use a filter system either that's just my personal choice I like to use the
screw on ones because if you look at this lens here I just leave it screwed
on and then I've still got it ready on this lens as well so I don't need to
keep taking it off and putting it on, that just works for me.
So tripod wise I have just upgraded to the Manfrotto 055 carbon version.
Again, I'm thinking a lot about lightness with the bad back I've been suffering I
want to get as light as possible so I've upgraded to 055, it's much lighter it's
about 500 grams lighter than the aluminium version and while that
doesn't sound like a lot when you're carrying it up these mountains that
really does make a difference. I've then got a slightly older ball head on top of
there but it does the job for me so I've seen no reason to upgrade that up to
this point. I've then been carrying around a few lens hoods and things like that
don't often use that but now and again they're pretty good and I've stopped
carrying around a intervalometer and also a shutter release cable because
Canon 5d Mark 4 has that built-in so when I'm trying to avoid camera shake
and things I'll just use the two second timer I just find it a lot easier it
speeds up my workflow it's just one less bit of gear that I need to bring with me
so that is pretty much my landscape still setup.
I do also shoot a lot of video which is why I've got this bag here, at the moment
I'm filming this on the Canon 800d (T7i), I reviewed that not so long ago that it's
also a really great camera for doing landscapes as well so if you're looking
for a crop sensor camera you might want to check that one out I have the Rode
Videomic Pro here as well I use that when it's not as windy and then to
record the audio at the moment I'm using the rode filmmaker kit which is...... loads of
planes going across today...... That's the overall setup and do carry an extra
couple of things which this bag holds I've got my food and first-aid kits and
torch when I'm walking home in the dark which I do a lot. Other safety bits and
pieces...... compass, map, whistle, knife that kind of thing, all those sorts of things
you need when you're going to be isolated in these locations and then
I've just got spare cards, batteries things like that which are an
absolute must because stuff goes wrong all the time so you need to have backups
for those types of things. So that's pretty much it, the one other thing that
is all part of your landscape photography for me is having a presence
online and I am using Squarespace. I've your first purchase. Okay I hope you've
enjoyed this video I hope it's been useful you get an idea of what I'm using
leave a comment down below and let me know what you think I'll see you on
another video very very soon I'm Adam this is First Man Photography
in the amazing Snowdonia Out!!! 