Welcome everyone. Look who's here. Brought her back baby, to play the greatest game of all time (yay) What (you've never played tuber simulator?! 
 ?) You never played minecraft? So when you look at that, when you look at that meatball, what does that-What does that tell you? Use this to look around. Well, that's my giant meatball. This is my world in Minecraft Marzia. wait am I supposed to look at there or here *happy marzia noises* :) We have this really awkward setup, and your name is James Charles fan because that's my secret Minecraft account :c Ohno! They will know now, I'll change it it's fine Yeah, I do I'm wearing this uh... I'm wearing this spooky helmet. you look cute, you're wearing a You're wearing a diamond helmet (gold*). See if you press I think f5 you can change so you see yourself. that's how you look like. Yeah, you're wearing diamond armor you should be happy with it, all right marzia: so how do I break stuff? Don't break anything. NOOO :o Stop! Hey, hey, hey, hey relax you told me one button, and im pressing it Yeah, you're in creative mode I don't know how to get you out of it, okay, I got to show you stuff Okay, so this- Marzia! come over here! Okay, that's my slave- I mean my worker, I pay him minimum wage. So there's this uh, this is my automatic farm, you come over here and press this button. Yeah he's doing the machinery Don't worry about it. Press this button. No, just right click on the button Yeah Starts to farm and if you follow me here marzia: you know, im not very fast ahaha its the first time I use this No, you're doing good maybe the farm isn't that impressive okay It's just like I'm getting stuff, follow me. This is council of water sheep. Yeah. Hey! Hey! Hey! oh my god no!!! you let out council of water sheep :c *marzia vehemently denies cruel and destructive allegations* Get back to work Council. All right quick quick quick they're council of water sheep. No, I don't know. Okay, so I'm building this like oh I gotta show you IKEA Tower. Follow me ohmygod stop changing the [subject] its so annoying Look at IKEA tower look at look at the IKEA Tower! [in all its glory] Woah! Woahhh! Wow! is it a horse? Yeah, that's Joergen, that's Joergen 2 Are you trying to grief water sheep? Follow me to the meatball! Okay, we'll do our own level in a second. I just really want to show you like what ive been... Why you haven't seen me in the past- marzia: what is in the WAter?! that's a creeper not that, that Oh, that's a squids
marzia: why are they so big? what happens if I fall in the water? pewds: they'll eat you >:-)
don't fall in the water marzia: woah, really?
pewds: no.
you can actually breathe in water cuz I have this like things set up marzia to squid: whoa, what are you gonna do to me?
concerned pewds: idk what do you wAnt it to do to you i wanted to give him a ride (I wanted him to give me a ride) Well, you can ride horses and stuff but now You can't write squinch my see ya No one's ever tried it I like the thing with my crap everyone these things you can do different things Alright, you should come up over here Yeah, go up thing now ignore the city Okay, this is a my Japanese house that I built for spend. Oh, yeah, you can fly cuz you're in creative mode Okay down there This is Sven And this is men's boyfriend and this is friend's son Oh shit. Yeah, come on. That's Q and then there's a liberal. Wait. Oh, he didn't name. Yeah boyfriend I haven't named the Sun yet. I need a name tag, but it's gonna be sensing What are you doing Tim? Well, everything's judging you right now, let me take you to my freaked onion Hey, what's that attacking me? Oh It's a fan thumbs. Hurry up. Okay. Oh, yeah, they're so annoying It's cuz I haven't slept in the game these annoying things come from the sky Hey, I gotta get my training back No, it comes back after all, okay, so wait wait wait where Specter That's pinky comes and goes so this is what their sheep and dungeon you press this it opens up That's tower a llama She likes tower I'm impressed by Minecraft fiancee this is nips Finally tower love. Let me show you Tara. Llama no one likes tower llama It's alright. So this is all the my workers. So after they in the freak dungeon after they they are done freaking thing I release them hearing. Hey guys, you're free Activated my own tribe by accident. Okay. Look Look look at him And then I send them up with a thing they go to work It's great Oh up there is do you want to try it? You can try and go into tribe making sure He's fine. He's fine Yeah, yeah gonna trap The Travis to good she can't find it. It's it's a That's not that is not the trap you want you mixed it. It doesn't matter Yeah Oh Look, you're one of the workers. Yeah, what job do you want? You can be whatever you want Spence mother That's so you. Okay. Well that bets it then Wow Why is he doing in my bed? Get out Is my bag You're not gamers. Good night gamers. All right, we should play our own world up. Okay, what should we name our seed? It should be called like if we have a sanctuary what would it be called bug lion? So I'm creating a new world front This is gonna be our world. But now no more fun and games Marzia. We have to survive no fun We have to serve Oh my god sheets Someone do that please for us. Oh, here we are mines yet. Oh, you're so kawaii. Look you have lazy old outfit now What are you looking at? We have to survive this is important. Oh my god, there's for arrogance You're James Charles man, you can talk to me their donkeys look a baby. Thank you. So cute Okay, well Hmm, you can get only if you right-click it, but it will kick you off cuz you need to tame it Well, it looks like you're doing more than k me right please there is not work like I can get out you just hit me You're in it. Oh Yeah, you did He totally just pushed you on down. But okay. What about Beast? You can try the sheep's as far as I know you can do other things Frickin stay yeah, that's a button. So the world is completely like random randomly mates. And this is our world night will come though I see if you look at the sky. So we need to make our farts home Yeah, yeah So if you follow me The first thing you do in Minecraft is cut down a tree with your bare fists to get some wood It's a pick a pick a tree that you hate and just start punching it. Thank you Well, we can replant the trees which one are you going for? So you just hold you just hold down that button and you see it started decreasing Yeah, you know you got your first block in Minecraft Yeah, that's how they work that's how signs work notch made this game he decides if you press e You get like your inventory? Okay, okay after you and then you have like this crafting area, right? Yeah, if you bring the blocks there you can make them into wood we're more wouldn't like planks or whatever So you just right right click there? Yeah Yeah, and then place them in with your Eamon turn and then you have more and then now you can make other things So this is like log and now it's like planks and then you can take the planks to make other things For example, you could grab more Yeah, you can do that and then you place one Right click in there and then click left click in the different spaces If you place one in each thing you make a workbench, which maybe isn't that important or orange? Steak sticks are good, too. Okay Yeah, it makes sticks and I'll make a workbench you Know we have to make a Well, well we can make an axe so you can break us up faster So if you give me your steaks I can make you an axe. Alright, I'll make your necks anyway You click on the crafting table and you make this pattern Well, I can tell maybe if you watch my let's place There you go, there you go she's making workbench next up you'll make a cobblestone generator I Think you have enough sticks. Okay. So come over come over to your boy. Hello. Stop. Don't punch me You know, I have an x-ray Wow Wow I Wholly say that you need an axe to we're gonna build a house Marzia Don't eat the mushrooms Your point they're poison mushrooms no, they're not you can make mushroom stew if you want I'd say we have to build a house zombies are coming at night Here grab his hands grab that axe. I give you an axe. Just keep chopping Yes chop wood might see a chop shop. You have to say Reach yeah, you break faster if you say chop chop Okay, once we get it enough wood we should pick a spot No, they can drop like apples it might be good to have a little snack You know, I was just gonna murder one of the cows What did you say nice murder nothing what I would never do not do not are we doing a vegan let's play But then we have to it's so much harder Hi, all right well eating mushroom we're eating mushroom tonight gamers Okay, I think we have enough wood I think what we can do now is we can find like a nice spot where we want to build our house I up we're underwater or whatever you want. Okay, maybe not underwater. That's a good idea Okay, I like that I like that see this is Where do you go? Are you going up? Okay, I see I see Yeah, so 200 part. Let's play incoming Peter pine James Charles fan. Do you like to any Charles? Well, no, I don't like you don't like this is so cool this is incredible All right, you pick a spot whatever you want But it doesn't work if you're gonna break up Emma we can replant trees. There's flower biomes eyz Okay, you're using an axe to cut down PP which is not very efficient, so here you go use this for The dirt stuff and use this pickaxe to cut down the gray stuff Are you doing good? Yeah Yeah, but here I'll use this one. I sent it. This one is prettier I made a better one for you. If it gets dark we can let up this place. Oh my god It's getting dark real fast Marcia. Oh my god. They quicker. My Zia is getting darker I'll make torch. Are you blind? Oh my god. There we go. What should we name our home? Potato I like that we should build a giant potato that shouldn't be potato And then we only grow up with paedos, wait, what are you doing I'm helping you. Excuse me. Oh, sorry Sorry, I'll be right back. If I die Marcia, just no, what do you mind? I just know that that is dad Abandoning me. I'm just gonna I'm coming back. I'm coming back. We just don't have any food. Where's the hole? Oh, here we go You pick that you pick the good home. Yeah, I did this. So now we can put So evil people don't come in for the door here. Perfect You like that Okay, I have a bit and then Fedor here That's good. I like this. I thought it would look good together. Just like using different. You know, what nevermind? That's yeah, they don't have them they don't have big doors in this game careful making the Lord make a door I did Can you make yes Yes, cuz I want to keep them the natural effect. That's right. Yeah, you can make how's this? Yeah And we can have a little How many years of Minecraft experience Did this whole is like the night It's kind of cool If we murder a couple of sheeps we can use their wool to make bends and we can sleep sleep Oh, we don't have to marry anyone of course I'll guess I'll make a mushroom stew instead because we're poor my say wants to be poor Yeah, yeah, I'll give you some torches you can place them. Hey wait watch this I never done this before That's so cool. Oh I Have to dig holing Dang it You're very demanding lady but of course, of course here it is you're my minecraft girl and I do anything Right a right-click there you go say anything any block you have you can replace I Gotta say this is a nice hole Yeah Hi Sue, why do you have so much food? Why am I dying and you're not are you still in creative mode? No, I'll make a mushrooms Some what you said that you have perfect. Yeah. Yeah, but then I need to kill some enemies I need to kill spiders What about chickens? Yeah, no chickens. You want to head out then? No one died. Maybe I should make a sword. Actually. They just cleaning up. Okay, here's something yeah, I Protect you my dad, don't worry Yeah, take the sword ah Behind me there's a baby killing kill the baby Marcia. Yeah. I hate them. Oh my god. Please kill it It's gonna it's gonna kill me all thank God You'll learn where's my sword, uh, it's probably new inventory I really want to kill the cows Marcia No, I won't do it. Oh My god, I thought that was you I almost died Oh careful And you wait for the sword to charge up you look like you've taken a couple punches thing Okay Okay, Polly, all right Oh It's full of people. There's so many my dear. Where did you go? Oh my god. You're so far away How did this happen The Sun is back. Okay, that means the zombies died when the Sun comes up just keep living Keep living for me Marcia and the animals Internet Are you stop that? I don't think there are crocodiles in Minecraft The fishes yeah, you can use a bucket. No, we just started might see one step at a time You didn't hit it with the ax oh You drown No But yeah, we do we look at our fishes. Oh my god. I'm gonna die, too Well you you can respawn you Just lose your items but it's okay. Oh we have a trader here. Oh My god the llamas are gonna kill me. Oh My god, I got killed by llamas don't tell anyone. Okay, I'll find him one second. I was surprised Nothing I just killed it I killed a traitor and I have a present for you It was further north so where are you right now? Hey, oh, yeah, I see you I see you with stained water. Hey, yeah, there you are here my dear Hey macho, you must be so scared Ler I have a present for you Marcia You have it follow me my dad, this is our home I was close you were close We can old I have a lead now so we can also take hostages like this Chicken can come with us and be our house pay But we kidnap in you don't want to chick in Months. My sir doesn't want you. Sorry. He says he has nowhere else to go his family abandon him He says please maybe one day might say will change her mind about me He said he loves your YouTube channel Hey fake sad fake bad Okay, so what I'm good, how do I get stuff back your meter would away I can't breathe right I can make us some beef It fell on the ground ha ha it fell on the ground in front of me Look, I make flour in front of my house. I'm tired of being hungry. I'm starving literally starving There was a cow and nothing The cow had to go. I'm sorry I don't eat a spider Alright, so what do you want? I can make you a wooden sword. What do you want anything? You want like anything you want? Anything make me a cow. I'll make you account Yes do Yes, damn you sure you have good intuition How I go where are you you keep disappearing everywhere what are you doing I'll leave you for two seconds two seconds You want more snow you want a house full of snow you want to eat glue You're an eagle Yeah, at least changing. Yeah, look at these mountains. They're sawsan, aren't you your feet cold. So am I saying you wanted more snow? What are you laughing Yeah, yeah. Okay, so you can make snow blocks. Let me see. I don't remember You used to shovel. So I hear use the shovel to get the snow So we should have a location, you know, it's like the hole Yeah, you can go as tall as you want so wanting the clouds Yeah, I never thought of that I shouldn't do that on my own No, why not What do you want to do Oh You need you need me to help you out. Okay? Okay. Okay. Let's just make like a cute and called it an igloo I would make it a little bigger that Would make it like bing bang And I'm like pushing you away cuz you're in and I look like a clown and I don't make it a little like a little yeah And then leave one open so we can see the skies and stuff Hey James, Charles fan. Here you go more We don't have a lot of time Isaiah zombies come soon soon chop chop chop chop chop chop chop Now don't panic don't panic. You'll be fine. You'll be fine I would like get on top of it and then I would put one more up and then like maybe like that you say I'm saying oh God, we have a visitor Marzia boise ones. Oh, he's outside our house. No Go away. I'll push him up the moon Okay Look at our beautiful igloo. Look at that. Thank Martha it's a beauty a Truly a spectacle to be absurd It's lovely what matters is the insane. All right. What else do you want? See, you know I protect my ground Run that's yeah. Yeah. Yeah Hey, I just saved you a lot of offense a wot a Bridge here out. You can put the fence of you on. Oh, yeah Good fence. What? Why? What did I do? I'm trying over a year. All right. I'm doing the bridge Building a bridge for your minds. Yeah This is minecraft, we build bridges. Oh god, it's so far. No That is actually not bad, ah I never build anything. It's not before we should yeah, we should find it in our hostage Dogs, do you have any bones? I have a dog bone we can tame one. I don't think you like that We tame him he's ours now This one is he tamed I can't tell Even plot I need to cook the food maybe Dawn budge him He's gonna kill you mind that you're sorry about that Why again You were trying to give him a flower good dog, all right well guess it's just me and Sven to Anam Thank you for joining my Zia it smash like subscribe hundred million merch Cool all right Well, you haven't tried to pursue Malaysian citizen II after 50 million app troops 