Would you like to eat a brownie – shaped
like a piece of poop, or slurp delicious soup – out of a newly-sanitized bedpan, or drink
a freshly-squeezed glass of juice – into which someone had dipped a sterilized cockroach? Perhaps unsurprisingly, when actually put
in these scenarios, most people turn them all down – even the brownie! That's because, even though these snacks are
perfectly safe to eat, human brains are built to trigger powerful feelings of disgust at
even the slightest suggestion of contamination. Humans probably evolved to be easily disgusted
because it saved them from eating nasty stuff like spoiled food and feces. Even now that we have rational ways of figuring
out what’s safe, disgust still makes some of our decisions for us — even some fairly
big decisions. Take the drought-prone Tri-Valley area of
Northern California, which in the late 1990s built a multi-million dollar water plant that
used reverse osmosis to recycle sewage water into drinking water. It wasn’t an untested idea - water recycling
plants in Namibia, Singapore, and even Southern California had been churning out clean, potable
water for years using the same technology. But the idea of drinking something that used
to have poop floating in it made some locals so queasy that they began filing lawsuits,
and the plant closed before it even opened. Public backlash has killed water recycling
plants in other places, too, likely in part because party poopers called the water “toilet-to-tap”,
which made it sound like there was nothing between the pooping and the drinking. Studies show that time and distance are some
of the best antidotes to disgust: in one survey, only a third of people said they’d drink
recycled water if it were added directly to pipes, but two thirds would drink it if it
spent time in reservoirs first, even though the pipe water and reservoir water were equally
clean. In other words, we can trick ourselves out
of our irrational disgust by doing irrational things like letting recycled water sit in
tank for a while before we drink it. Another trick is to rebrand that recycled
water: Singapore quickly gained public support for their recycled water by calling it NEWater. Finally, people are more willing to take the
plunge when circumstances become dire. After another 15 years of droughts and mandatory
water restrictions, the Northern Californians changed their minds and asked their water
authority to look into getting the poop-water plant – I mean, the Pure-New-Sparkly-Clean-Fun-Water
facility – running again. Hey, this is Henry. 