Now, a lot of people don't realize this but as the CEO and founder of YouTube It's my job to personally watch every single video that gets uploaded to this website (to make sure they're all good). Is it time-consuming? Absolutely, but do I love doing it? Absolutely not. It's such a chore. Around six or seven years ago I remember this popular trend going around called "Things  Say" and because it was popular, pretty much everyone started doing it Even though it essentially just boiled down to LeT's Go ShOpPiNg sPoRt But then luckily in the midst of all of that nonsense There was a channel called "Tripp and Tyler" that came out with a video called "Shit Nobody Says" "I miss faxing" "I'm hoping he asks me to help him move" "TLI" "Touch the screen" And I remember being like eighteen and seeing this and thinking, "This is comedy." "This is hilarious to me" "And if I had my own YouTube channel, I would make my own version of it." And while it may have taken me almost seven years, but I finally did That's what I'm saying. They need to reboot every movie. You know, what would make this show better? A laugh track. I feel like everyone's a good driver. Oh, that's a good life hack. We've got the best upstairs neighbors! My favorite part is the stick. Does anyone need to borrow some money? Pop music just keeps getting better. There's not enough commercials There's not enough apps. This line is too short. I hope I get sued. Mmm, this taxi smells delightful. *long sigh* I miss jail. Hey, sorry I'm early. Want to listen to some cassettes? What do you mean you're lowering our rent? I can never seem to use all my data. I can't wait to go Christmas shopping. Fine. I'm just gonna say it. I wish we had bedbugs. *chanting* Taxes, taxes. Dude. I just had the best panic attack. I hope this place has mosquitoes. I just don't think there's enough late-night talk shows. Can I sit in the trunk? I wish there was more sand. Sorry, I know you're driving right now, but could you finish that text? If it was up to me, I'd wet the bed every night. Can you tell me about your dream? I miss middle school. No, it's my turn to take out the trash! Mmmm, my coffee got cold. Oh, one second. I just gotta put this on my facebook story. (pfft) *chanting again* Traffic, traffic. It's not humid enough. I miss puberty. Anyone know a good place to get germs? I'll probably just leave the oven on until we have to use it again. Okay good, I was worried I put deodorant on. My perfect first date? Well, we'd start off at the dentist. Today was the perfect day for jury duty. Mmm, did someone fart? *clapping* Nice now, I can finally check that off my bucket list. Um, guys, so I know this video was a little bit shorter than usual and definitely pretty different, but don't worry. It's not entirely different because I'm - you guessed it - doing a brand deal. I get bombarded with questions all the time in my comments - "Drew, when are you gonna drop your skincare routine?" And today is the day and my skincare routine is that I sometimes wash my face. Skincare is very important, but for a long time I didn't take it seriously at all. I think a lot of guys don't. Part of the reason for that might be that marketing for most men's products is so just not in line with the way a lot of men think. I feel like they always tend to target a very stereotypical definition of what a man is like, like it's always this absurd figure of masculinity yelling at you to buy a shampoo Because that what man do. Big strong man like you need put this on face. But not all guys are like that some of us happen to be... Adult boys and that's fine too. I can be scrawny and still own tool. And that's part of the reason I love today's sponsor Bulldog. I've been using their face wash for a couple months now, and I actually really like it. I love the way it smells, Standard Drew Gooden Content. I know this one was a little different, but it's just fun to mix things up from time to time. Otherwise, I'll go crazy doing the same thing forever. Don't forget to comment down below something you've never said and be sure to tune in next week where I will be doing exactly one jumping jack and then falling asleep. So see you next time. I'm not really a big food guy. My favorite song right now? Probably the national anthem. Today a homeless man gave me money. I don't have enough channels. I think this was Drew's best video. 