The Roman Empire was one of the most powerful
civilizations in world history, and for its time likely the most powerful in the world. Its capital city was one of the first cities
in history to reach a population of 1 million, and it lasted in one form or another for over
2,000 years, with its influences still seen around the world to this day. So just how powerful was the Roman Empire
in its hey-day? [This video was brought to you by TheArmchairHistorian.com,
a new service for history YouTubers. A few months ago, I made a video about superpowers--
again not physical superpowers but geopolitical superpowers-- in which I highlighted the US
and the rising potential influences of China and India, and even the somewhat faded influence
of Russia and Britain. However, if I were to have made that video
around 2,000 years ago, it wouldn’t have been possible, ha-ha great observation, smartass! Okay, if I were *talking* about the world
2,000 years ago, I would mostly be talking about Rome (though I’d probably also be
talking about Han Dynasty China, to be fair). This is because the Roman Empire-- or as the
cool kids call it, Romany-- was arguably the most powerful pre-colonial empire by far (at
least in Europe, depends on your criteria for “powerful”), and they changed the
face of Europe in such a way that is in a sense virtually unimaginable. So how did Rome get to be so powerful? Well, for the first 300 or so years after
the city of Rome was founded in 753 BC, Rome was actually a tiny city-state in the middle
of the Italian Peninsula. It was essentially a Latin city-state, the
same way Athens and Sparta were Greek city-states, so this wasn’t unusual in the Mediterranean
world of the time. However, after Rome was sacked by Gallic forces
in 390 BC, Rome eventually started to expand throughout the peninsula, eventually becoming
rivals with the Carthaginian Empire, who had already set up a massive sphere of influence
in the Western Mediterranean. This would become known as the great thicc-ening
of Rome (seriously, who writes this stuff?!) Three Punic Wars later however and Rome eventually
came out victorious after learning how to actually fight at sea, allowing it to expand
throughout the rest of the Mediterranean world, conquering Gallia, Hispania, Britannia, the
Balkans, Anatolia, the Levant, Egypt, Numidia, and briefly even controlling parts of Germania,
Armenia, and Mesopotamia. By its height in 117 AD under emperor Trajan--
or Traianus-- the empire had a population of around 70 million, over a quarter of the
world‘s population at the time, and had entered a period of peace and stability known
as Pax Romana. Although this roughly 200-year period of time—
from Augustus‘ ascension to power in 27 BC to Marcus Aurelius‘ death in 180– still
saw wars and rebellions, it was a period of exceptional peace and stability throughout
the empire when it was at the height of its power. One of the sources of Rome‘s strength and
longevity were its foundations, and especially how well it effectively standardized many
aspects of law and culture across the empire. Rome also frequently controlled a network
of client states. Often, especially during the Republic, Rome
would initially incorporate foreign states as subservient puppet states; not exactly
part of Rome, but not exactly not part of Rome. These were usually either allied states or
former enemies who were defeated in battle, and now paid a tribute to the Roman emperor. Even then, those territories which became
provinces were still allowed to keep their local traditions, often even combining their
traditions with Roman traditions. See? You have Sulis, we have Minerva. Boom! Sulis-Minerva! It’s almost as if you were Roman this whole
time and just needed time to realize it! So how did Rome compare with the other powers
of Eurasia at the time? Well, in 100 AD, the other powers of the world
known to the Romans would have been Han Dynasty China, the Kushan Empire, and most of all
their main rival the Parthian Empire. Rome and Persia were basically always fighting
once they came within reach of each-other. A series of conflicts that would simply be
known as the Roman-Persian or Roman-Iranian Wars started in 54 BC and was passed down
to the Eastern Roman and Sassanian Empires before finally ending in 628, around when
it was conquered by the Islamic Caliphate. These wars were always a constant drain on
the resources of both empires, and the two even frequently made alliances with many of
the states caught in between the two, notably Armenia. Rome also had intermittent contact with China,
but mostly indirectly through the Silk Road, as Chinese silk became commonplace in Rome,
as did Roman glasswork in China. Rome also had vast influence over the Germanic
tribes north of their border, mostly for trade, but many of them even spoke Latin. Of course, the Roman Empire couldn‘t maintain
its stability forever. Over the fourth and fifth centuries, the foundations
of the Empire started to crumble due to loads of different factors, from economic crises
to poor management to the chain effects brought on by the Huns. The empire’s best strategy for growing economically
was to grow physically, but its resources were eventually stretched too far and too
thin, especially after conquering economically-deficient provinces like Britannia. Multiple times during this time, the Empire
was split into two, and even four, pieces to be more easily governed. After the capital was moved to Constantinople,
the West started to decline until eventually it was conquered in 476 and the Roman Empire
lost… you know, Rome. Of course, Rome has left a cultural legacy
all over the world that really isn’t seen with most other civilizations in world history. While there are plenty of equivalents in other
parts of the world, Rome expanding as dramatically as it did and controlling its territories
with such a tight grip for so long changed the history of Europe in ways we can’t even
imagine, and therefore also their colonies. I mean look at this, this is the state capitol
building of California, a state of a country on a continent the Romans would never have
even dreamed of, and yet it was still built in a kind of Greco-Roman style architecture
and also has a statue of the goddess Minerva. Rome also invented and expanded concepts and
inventions like citizenship, arches, aqueducts, concrete, road networks, and even the idea
that someone on trial is innocent until proven guilty. Honestly, it’s kind of hard to imagine European
society without all that. So could Rome have survived? Well, really it did until 1453, but in a quite
different form. Then again, if the Western Roman Empire were
to have survived more or less intact, it would definitely have had to make some changes. After all, gladiatorial fights and an imperial
cult of personality wouldn‘t have gone well in the 21st century. Then again Rome changed the Western world
so much that it‘s hard to say if people would still care about that stuff like we
do, so I could be wrong. I could also be right, I don’t know, a 21st
century Roman Empire is way too complicated to think of. A really interesting scenario, but not one
I’d personally think about too much. Thanks for watching, as always! Please give this video a like and also check
out the special holiday merch we have on sale on our store (link in the description). We have special beanies and themed ugly Christmas
sweaters that will only be on sale for the holiday season, so be sure to get yours while
you can! Of course, if you want to support the channel,
the best way to do so is by simply subscribing to learn something new every Sunday. 