Hello~ Solarsi.. Ddo! Solar here. Today, I'm going to try doing a challenge where I reveal the process of removing stage makeup. I'm actively promoting lately although when this video goes out, it'll probably be over But, right now, I have a lot of makeup on. Because I performed today, too. Unlike my usual daily makeup I have kind of thick makeup on. I was thinking about revealing the
process of myself removing it. So I filmed this. Then, without talking much longer I will "let's get it" right away. Leggo~ This angle is a bit strange but [anyways] [Face washing headband is essential!] Laa-Laa~ Tinky Winky~ Dipsy~ Laa-Laa~ Po I got this as a gift.
(Laa-Laa headband received as a gift) But, this keeps coming down.. So I have to tuck it in here. It has that trouble. Anyway, I tucked that in. First, I'm going to start my makeup(?)
(Not in her right mind) My makeup is thick So, I'm the type to wash it multiple times. I wash it twice, thrice a lot. Because (the stage makeup) is thick. If I wash it less, I get a lot of 
skin troubles the next day, So, I think I'm the type to wash it meticulously. You can see this thick makeup, right? The product I'm using first is this. It's a cleansing oil. It's Blancow~ As the face of Blancow I'm going to use their cleansing oil product. (Pumping) Pumping~ [Playing MAMAMOO music in between] About 4~5 times? I pump it And then rub it on my face. It first removes some of the thick makeup. I'm going to use it like that. My skin is on the sensitive side So, I'll break out a lot sometimes. But, this cleansing oil product Is one that has has been approved
 for not being irritating- I can't open my eyes. It's a product like that So I'm using it being at ease. (Rub)(Rub) It's going to slowly melt all the makeup. Even to my neck.. I apply makeup. I match it, so I have to meticulously cleanse it. And, lips. [Oh my, this has to be captured] Then you remove it with tissues. Don't rub it away But press it down and off. It can mess with your skin (Skin is precious) I have fake eyelashes on, so you can see it, right?
(Eyelashes eliminated) This cleansing oil is made using natural ingredients There aren't any harmful substances in it. So they say you can be at ease using it. I'm going to press it off one more time. (Meticulous) Pressing down. [(Empha-)Pressing down!(-sis)] I'm going to do it one more time. Press it out about two times. (Persistent eyelash) Under your eyes, too. You know this is really important, right? Under your eyes If you don't cleanse it well You get dark circles.. So you have to do it really well under your eyes. And your hair.. Do you call it the (hair) zone? The place where your hair starts (here) Do this with your fourth finger. Like this, meticulously. Especially with your hair zone, 
if it isn't washed well You can get a lot of skin troubles there. The sides of your nose! Here with your fourth fingers as well. The reason your fourth fingers are used Is because the thumbs are too thick And the second and third are too strong So it can irritate your skin. The pinkies are too weak So the fourth fingers are just enough
(Solar-official) Eyebrows, too. To the grain, and opposite of it, rub rub. This cleansing oil product also Has milk extract ingredients So that kind of cleans up the dead skin cells And has moisturizing effects. It's like killing two birds with one stone? After you do this Once more with tissues, pressing down. (Totally meticulously) Pressing down. Even my neck. Lastly, pumping it once. [It's not over yet..!!] I'm going to do it just one more time. [There's no lazy hell in cleansing either..!] It's a bit much to look at, but even your lips, cleanly. You honestly don't have to remove it to this extent But I.. With my personality.. I like it being removed perfectly. I've now cleaned my face with the oil. 
(1st cleansing finished) It feels like my eyebrows haven't been washed But my eyebrows are tattooed. So this is clean. I'm going to use the Blancow cleansing foam. As the face of Blancow (emphasis) I'm going to do this as a Blancow series. When it comes to Blancow foam cleanser, I've been using it for a while now. I'm going to wet my face first then use the Blancow foam cleanser. About this much? [First make foam] I use pH-balanced cleansing foam. When it comes to pH-balanced ones, 
they don't foam up well. It's kind of frustrating. But this foams up really well. (Blancow's face that has affection for Blancow) On your face.. [Apply the foam and wash it] This cleansing foam is also a product that has been approved for not being irritating. My skin is quite sensitive. So, for people like that, I think it's a product
 you can use without worry. Normally, when I use a different foam cleanser I do this about twice. But this works really well only doing it once. [Foam cleanser that satisfied perfectionist Solar] Whether it's fine dust or makeup, it cleans it well. I'm using it well. Meticulously. I didn't know it either There's something called surfactant. A chemical detergent If that kind of product gets used It irritates your skin a lot.. Is what they say. So, when you use other products
 [*Blancow cleansing foam doesn't have that in it ^'^] I think it would be good to check to see 
if it has those ingredients in it. Even your eyes.
[2 million subscriber YouTuber even worrying about Yongwangnims' skin] I'm going to wash it off! [Even the ears, cleanly] Subscribe~ Like~ [Cleansing that's finished completely] Today, I tried a reveal the process of removing stage makeup challenge. It's been completely removed. And now, as the face of Blancow
(3rd time she's saying this) I used the cleansing oil and foam. Especially when using the cleansing foam It's really gentle And I think it's nice being able to use it without irritation. Since I wear thick makeup Getting removed cleanly And not having skin troubles is really important. During that month (of use) Without troubles And without worrying about the sensitivity I think I was able to use it well.
(Blancow the best) I hope you all also.. Yongwangnims who wear makeup Washing up is the most important thing With double, triple washing I hope you remove all the impurities in your skin. You know that washing up is most important, right? I will return with a greater challenge next time. Bye~ My tiny caterpillars that have fallen onto the sink. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. 5 caterpillars, say hi~ What happened to Solar...? 