The temperature of regular stuff is basically
just a measurement of jiggliness of the atoms and molecules that make that stuff up. More jiggling, higher temperature. Less jiggling, lower temperature. Of course, when something's at a high temperature,
it feels hot, and when something's at a low temperature, it feels cold. Right? mmmjhyyaaanot exactly If you touch a piece of metal and a book that
have been sitting in your fridge, the metal will feel much colder than the book - Derek
of Veritasium did a great video on this, but you really have to try it for yourself to
believe it! The metal and the book are honestly at the
same temperature as measured by a thermometer, but the metal FEELS colder. This isn't just a trick of the mind, though
- we experience the metal as "colder" than the book for a very physical reason: metal
is a conductor, and paper is an insulator, so the ENERGY, or jiggliness of the molecules
in our hands, is absorbed more quickly by the metal than by the book. Even though the book and the metal are at
the same temperature, the metal causes the temperature of our hands to go down faster,
and thus, we experience the metal as being colder - because the temperature of our hands
is what we really feel. It's like how, technically, a mercury thermometer
really only measures its own temperature and you can only indirectly measure temperatures
of other things by putting them in thermal contact with it. Similarly, the thermoreceptive nerves in our
skin can only directly measure the temperature of the skin itself and not of anything else. So when we touch something, we don't feel
its temperature, but rather, we feel its effect on our skin: that is, how much and how quickly
it transfers thermal energy - that's the jiggling of molecules - to or from us. The capacity to transfer thermal energy is
also why a blast of steam from your stovetop can feel so much hotter than a blast of hot
dry air from your oven, even though the oven has a higher temperature: water vapor transfers
more molecular jiggling to your skin than air by itself. In fact, it's tempting to say that "hot" and
"cold" are fundamentally different concepts from "high temperature" and "low temperature",
even though we usually use the words interchangeably. "Hot" really means "it gives off a lot of
energy" while high temperature means "it has a lot of energy" - and as anyone who's tried
fundraising knows, just because somebody has a lot of something, doesn't necessarily mean
they give a lot  