How are you doing, you wonderful nerds? Scott here and I want to share a little pet peeve of mine with you. Whenever we see Superman's
home world of Krypton in any media that has sound in it, the Kryptonians, for being
aliens, always seem to have some sort of American or British accent. And look, I don't mind that
they're speaking English since I can't be bothered with subtitles but I would at least like
to hear a little bit more of Krypton's culture
whenever characters talked. Of course, that does raise the question, what does the Kryptonian
accent sound like? Or rather, what should it sound like? And this is kind of a
tricky question to answer which is why I'm not going
to be the one doing it today. I'm actually on vacation
right now in California. My big old bald head is getting sunburned right on the tippy top so instead, we're gonna hand this one over to Auram from Auram's Comics and
he can explain all about the language of Krypton and what the Kryptonian accent should
indeed, sound like. Take it away. - Clark Kent, Superman is one of the most popular superheroes ever. We all know his story. Shipped away from a
burning planet to Earth where he would be raised by two farmers in the humble town of Smallville, Kansas and eventually grow up to become one of Earth's greatest defenders. Superman was a champion of truth, justice and the American way, adopting the country's
dialect and flag as his own even though he was born light years away. Cal arrived when he was a baby so it makes sense that he
would sound like an American from Kansas, but Supergirl
is a different story. When Kara got in her
pod to escape the fire and destruction of an entire planet, she was a teenager. She'd spent at least 13 years on a planet alien to her own. Her culture, history and most importantly, dialect were different. Knowing this, it would
make logical sense that Supergirl would have some
sort of accent foreign to anything found on Earth or at the very least,
something different from an American one as that
would be a pretty big coincidence in and out of continuity with the actual books
being made in America. This is even backed up
in the comics themselves as recently as Steve Orlando's Supergirl, which started in 2016. Kara doesn't use contractions, speaks more proper than her peers and is even made fun of at high school for having some weird accent
that no one can quite place. It's not just Kara that
sounds like this either. Her father speaks in similar patterns and honestly, it makes
sense that any other aged Kryptonians would sound a certain way. In most adaptations, this holds up. Superman's parents, or
his Kryptonian villians do have a specific shared accent but it's almost always a
subtle, English accent. - A sentimental replica of a
planet are long since vanished. Most volatile. - I am Jarrell. - And I am Lara. We are your parents. - Harvesting the core was suicide, it has accelerated the
process of implosion. - There's no real reason behind this. They could sound American
but because they're alien and these shows slash
movies are made in America, everyone sounds vaguely English. This is a trope that's been
used forever in Hollywood, to make a character
seem more distinguished, intelligent, evil, foreign, et. Cetera. Think of the majority of
the Empire in Star Wars or the Asgardians in the MCU. Something also worth noting
is that Supergirl herself always sounds American
in these adaptations. - Not just any DNA, my DNA. - We'll take Handor,
we'll take my parents. Find another planet, like you said. - It's not Ness, it's my
family's coat of arms. - This, like I said earlier
doesn't make too much sense. Yes, some people adapt
to the accents of those around them over time but even as a child, she sounds like a typical
all American girl. - Invisibility huh? Is that your super power Kenny Lee? - This is either an
oversight by the writers or a simple casting choice, which is more likely to be the case. Besides, studies have shown that babies develop accents as
early as six months old. So this is mostly irrelevant. You could also argue that
because of a Kryptonian's inherent genius-level intellect, their brain has allowed
them to adapt their accent to whatever language they're
speaking at the time, which sure, that's
definitely a possibility which lends more credence
to them sounding English but it also means that Superman would have an English accent,
seeing as the Kryptonains attain accents through
biology, not growth. It's just a bit too tangential,
seeing as we're basing this on how humans speak. Anyway, nothing so far
has sounded different from any accents we have here on Earth, just repurposing things for
the sake of simplicity, really. Even when Chadwick Boseman
plays Black Panther, a Marvel character from the
fictional country of Wakanda, he gives them an accent
that's derived from an African dialect but is
different enough to sound unique. - How long do you think you can keep your friends safe from me? - So what is this
specific Kryptonian accent that is talked about in the comics then? The movies and TV shows
sure aren't helping. Let's step back a bit
to Supergirl's origin. As discussed earlier, when
Supergirl arrives on Earth, she has very strong
memories and experiences with Krypton and it's culture. Her entire dialect is Kryptonian, which includes her manner
of speaking and language which are combined to form an accent. We don't have a whole lot of examples of what the Kryptonian language
exactly sounds like, outside of the subtle English but what we do have is an alphabet. Two actually. The original Kryptonese looks like this. It's mostly a lot of
squiggles, very loose lines that are similar to a
lot of Arabic scripts. This example is kind
of a moot point though because after Crisis on Infinite Earth, this version of the Kryptonian alphabet stopped being circulated
and was replaced by this, the modern interpretation. This one is much sharper, being made up of a lot of symbols and shapes
that resemble things we've seen associated with the Superman mythos. This modern Kryptonese
is actually very similar to a whole slew of dead, Greek alphabets, specifically Carian. When comparing the two, you
can see the shared qualities in the abundance of
sharp angles or heavy use of common shapes like
triangles and circles. The Carian language was
spoken mostly in the southwest of Anatolia, with
evidence of such being found all of the way up to 100 A.D. In the modern world,
Anatolia has become Turkey, which has a Latin based script, incredibly similar to the English alphabet which looks nothing like Kryptonese. So, unless we can go back in time and speak to some Carians,
we probably won't have an exact approximation of
what Kryptonians sound like but I would be willing to
say that they should sound Turkish over English though, as that makes a tiny bit more sense. You hear that Melissa Benoist? I'm challenging you. You better start taking
some dialect lessons. I want me a Turkish Supergirl. Thanks for watching. - Ah, language is fascinating. Thank you so much for
filling in while I am away. I promise that I will be
back with brand new videos. In fact, we have a Superman
one coming up very soon. It's about a conspiracy that I think I've almost unraveled. So stay tuned for that. Subscribe if you don't want to miss it. And of course, I want to
give a massive thank you to Auram's Comics for
filling in while I am away. He's the only reason you guys
are getting a video this week so make sure you go thank him
by checking out his channel. He makes really great
stuff including a podcast that both of us are one
called the Online Podcast. It's kind of, it's, you're
just gonna have to listen to it to understand what it's about, but it's kind of fun, I enjoy it. And as always, keep an eye
out for brand new videos here on NerdSync, my name is Scott, reminding you to read between the panels and grow smarter through comics, see ya. 