Mountains tend to be narrower at the top than
they are at the bottom – otherwise they’ll eventually fall down – but that doesn’t
mean that mountains are always SMALLER at the top. Because, what matters to most land
creatures is the amount of land; that is, the surface area, not the volume –  unless
you’re a mining company that plans to pulverize the entire mountain into smithereens. Then
volume matters. But to the rest of us, we care about surface
area – and surprisingly, the area of land on a mountain doesn’t necessarily get smaller
as you go higher up the mountain – especially when that mountain is part of a mountain range,
as mountains tend to be. Simple, lone mountains with shapes like cones
or spikes or inverted parabolas do indeed have less surface area the higher up you go,
though a parabolic mountain has a lot more area high up than a spikey mountain. And broader,
flatter, mountains can actually have MORE area the higher you go up, at least until
you get to the very top. These mountains do get skinnier as they go up, but they get flatter
so much faster than they get skinnier that from the perspective of available surface
area they’re bigger on top than at the bottom! And when you put mountains together into RANGES,
it’s even more complicated. Some ranges have LESS land area the higher you go up,
some have MORE area, some have more and then less, and some actually have more area at
both the bottom and top and less area in the middle! In fact, if you do a survey of mountain ranges
the world over, you’ll find that only around a third of them have a constantly decreasing
amount of land the higher you go, and the rest exhibit one of the other weird “top-heavy”
options. In other words, despite appearances and as
odd as it sounds, MOST mountain ranges are bigger near their tops. Which has interesting
implications for any land-dwelling creatures that might want to move their homes and businesses
up or down mountains, if, I don’t know, the climate changes or something. And one more weird fact: a perfectly hemispherical
mountain, while impossible in reality, has just the right shape to get skinnier at the
same rate that it gets flatter, so it has, amazingly, the exact same amount of area at
every elevation. The same math also means that if you evenly slice an orange, each piece
will have roughly the same amount of skin – but different amounts  