Muons are fundamental particles in our universe
that are essentially exactly the same as electrons, but heavier - 206.77 times heavier, to be
precise. Muons are super fascinating for a number of
famous reasons, including (and this is definitely an incomplete list) as an experimental test
of time dilation, as a catalyst making fusion possible at room temperature, and that they
can be used to make muonic versions of atoms, like muonic hydrogen (with a proton and a
muon, instead of a proton and electron). But muons decay into an electron and some
neutrinos after just a few microseconds on average, so they’re hard to store. So to do experiments on muons, you need to
have a source of muons on hand. A small number of muons are produced naturally
by cosmic rays striking our atmosphere, but one of the best ways of consistently and reliably
making a lot of muons is with a particle accelerator. First, you take hydrogen and you strip off
the electrons, leaving you with protons (protons, as a reminder, are not fundamental particles
- they consist of two up quarks and a down quark, stuck together by mutual attraction
due to the strong nuclear force). Then you accelerate the protons really fast
in an electric field (or a bunch of electric fields) and crash them into some other atomic
nuclei, like lithium or carbon or whatever. The energy of the collision creates a whole
mess of particles that goes flying out, but most importantly for our purposes, it creates
a particle called a pion - either a pion with positive electric charge made from an up quark
and an anti-down quark, or pion with negative electric charge made of a down and anti-up
quark. If the pions keep traveling in a vacuum so
that they don’t bump into anything else, they’ll spontaneously decay after about
26 nanoseconds, most frequently turning into a muon and a neutrino. Which you can use for fusion, or testing special
relativity, or making cool cloud chamber designs. And that’s how you make muons - accelerate
protons with enough energy that when they crash into other nuclei, the energy of the
collision creates pions, which then decay into muons. Which, of course, after 2.2 microseconds on
average, themselves spontaneously decay. If you want to prevent your mind from spontaneously
decaying, you may want to check out the new, 