In popular psychology, , few topics get as
much hype as “GRATITUDE” – the feeling of being thankful and showing appreciation. Even I’ve made an episode about it! Gratitude can be good for you and your health. But this hype got me thinking: is there such
a thing as too much gratitude? Can some “thank yous” do more harm than
good? I stumbled across “Insincere gratitude”
– the sciencey term for something we've all experienced – when someone says "thank
you" and you wonder if they’re being sincere or sarcastic. So how, exactly, is gratitude beneficial? And… can it go wrong? Let’s start with the good stuff – the
benefits of expressing gratitude. I hope you’ve experienced that warm fuzzy
feeling when a friend or partner tells you how much they appreciate you. But in addition to the warm fuzzies, scientists
have found there are benefits for gratefulness in romantic relationships and in forming new
friendships. For example, research shows that expressing
gratitude towards a potential friend makes them more interested in hearing from you and
spending time with you in the future. But just saying “Thank you” isn’t enough. A recent study showed that couples who expressed
more gratitude had increased marital satisfaction – but only if these expressions were perceived
as sincere. If the gratitude didn’t feel genuine, marital
satisfaction actually got worse. Sincerity can be hard to define, so researchers
have also looked at partner responsiveness - how much your partner is understanding,
validating, and caring. It also affects how people respond to gratitude. Researchers found that couples assigned to
express gratitude for a month had higher relationship satisfaction than control couples, but only
if the “thanked” person felt understood, validated, and respected by their partner. If the “thanker” didn’t show understanding
and empathy, their gratitude had no effect. They might as well have been talking about
what they had for lunch that day! Another study on insincere gratitude looked
at the effect of thank you letters sent to donors by charities. When these letters asked for an additional
favour – like more money, or following them on social media – recent or frequent donors
responded by decreasing their donations. Researchers think the additional ask made
the thank you letter appear insincere – just a way to manipulate the donor into giving
more money. Thankfully, there are some simple tricks that
you can use to keep your gratitude sincere and effective. First, show understanding and empathy when
you’re expressing gratitude! This means being a good listener, demonstrating
compassion and understanding, and valuing people’s abilities and opinions. So if your partner is excited about learning
to cook, you could tell them you appreciate the skill and hard work they put into making
dinner – this shows that you’re paying attention and value their passions and new
skills. Second, use language that praises others instead
of focusing on yourself! So for the cooking example, you could tell
them how much you appreciate their curiosity and drive to learn new skills instead of simply
saying how great it is that you didn’t have to cook. Studies show that this language increased
the receiver’s positive emotions and love for their partner. Finally, don’t say thanks and ask for more
favours at the same time! It comes off as insincere and can actually
have a negative impact on your relationships. When gratitude is done right, it can help
bring people closer together. But when it’s done wrong – like when it’s
perceived as insincere or manipulative – it can have the opposite effect. So pay attention to when and how you say thanks! Small improvements in the ways we express
gratitude can have big benefits for our well-being and relationships. 