Hi, did you know that we live very inefficient lives? For example only around 50% or less
of the available hydro, wind, solar, gas and coal energy gets
into our home as electricity. Only 5% of which... F***! Only around 5% turns into light
and the rest of 95% turns into heat by these stupid
incandescent lights. Now you might say you need a heater
at home in winter anyways *impulsed raging to self* At least the LED lights waste only
around *SIXTY PERCENT*. That's still pretty awful but much better. I was originally going to show you how to design
one of these wireless mobile phone chargers. But, then I thought to myself; This is a piece of garbage
device to start with. I bought one of these pads to try, and you
leave your wireless charging-enabled phone on it, and it starts charging. What's the point of this?
The wire is right there, I can just plug it in and it makes
the phone cost more too. At least with the wire, I can also talk
on the phone if the battery is dead. What are you going to do with the pad? Pick it up like an idiot while it's charging?! *Gentleman alike voice* James do you even lift? I guess you can put it on speaker *more impulsed rage at self* I guess the one benefit it has is that it reduces
the wear and tear on the charger connector. But I always plugged in my old phone
and never had a problem for the life of it! And the wireless pad is also massively inefficient. Wireless power transmission is quite inefficient! Nikola Tesla's plan to radiate wireless
power all around the world was supremely inefficient and
would never work commercially! Change my mind *sips a cup of tea* He was thinking to transmit power
to earth and atmosphere, Both of which are pretty bad conductors. We are of course already transmitting power
through air, which is our radio waves we use for communication all
thanks to Tesla's discoveries. But we are sending megawatts of electromagnetic power out of our radio transmitters, most of which is absorbed or
lost in the environment, and only a little bit of it reaches our receivers This pad tries to have higher efficiency by being right beside the phone and using magnetic fields only We should measure its efficiency. So this pad transmits magnetic
energy like a transformer. The primary coil is inside the pad and a secondary,
like this coil I made is inside the phone. I connected an LED to the output of this coil
and if I place it on the pad, it starts blinking. I think what's happening is that, the
pad is sending short pulses to see if there is a phone out there drawing large
enough energy to charge, and my circuit is not drawing large enough energy, but if I add a phone, then the pad detects it and it goes continuous. Now let's measure the efficiency of
this pad compared to direct wire. And for that, I put my current meter series
with the AC line to measure the gar- F***! S***! *unplugs the plug* it shorted okay, try again Okay, so it's stable around 50 milliamps Although it's not quite accurate
because the current draw by these switching power
supplies is not a sine wave. But it's good enough for comparison.
Now the current with direct wire. It seems it's settled around 76 milliamps. Now. I will charge the phone by
these two methods from 20% to 80%. And see how much energy
each method draws. Okay, I'm done testing It took 53 minutes on wire and 109 minutes
on pad to charge from 20% to 80%. But the important factor is the energy I put in which is the voltage x current x time in second. So after doing the calculations, You see that the charging pad is
wasting an additional 38% compared to a direct wire charging
the phone by the same amount. Sorry, but there is no real
benefit to a charging pad. Do you enjoy charging your battery like this? Just plug it in! And this is not even the least efficient. For example, the internal
combustion engines are only 20% efficient converting the
energy of the fuel into motion. The electric cars are around 50-60% efficient. But where do you think electricity comes from? Over 60% of it comes
from burning coal and gas that could be as bad as 20%
efficient in power generation. Solar panels are 30-40% efficient
only, which is not too bad because if we don't use what we can,
100% of the solar energy just pours on dirt. We can't say the same thing about
the fossil fuels because the lack of efficiency there ends up hurting
the planet and uses up resources. I personally, don't accept any efficiency
below 80% and like to see above 90% in all the power supplies and drivers I design.
But when I talk about low efficiency, I don't mean that there are a bunch of evil people that are trying to deliberately waste power. Unfortunately, those low numbers are the best we can do with the technology we currently have, which is awful! We should never get used to those
numbers and live with them and we are not! Researchers constantly work on this
problem while at the same time, they designed this low efficiency piece of junk because people want it. Stop wanting junk! I estimate we are throwing at
least 60% of the available energy into garbage because we can't convert energy well. It's in no one's benefit to waste energy. Do you know how much money is to be made if
we could save this 60% energy worldwide? What we need more of is Elon Musk's
brain, who is driven and cares for this. Unfortunately, despite my mom's
beliefs. I didn't end up like him. YET. Yeah, he works too much and I'm too lazy.
But I don't think his brain is unique at all I'm pretty sure a bunch of you
out there are smart or smarter. You just need a bit more direction and
encouragement to tackle these issues because all we need are more clever solutions and you are the person for the job. Believe me, power generation conversion
and transmission of any kind is one of the most important things and I want
you to think and dream about efficiency and please don't think
about free energy devices because... THERE IS NO FREE ENERGY DEVICE! Yeah going to Mars is cool and all
and there's a a lot to learn from it, But it's the brilliant idea to
make the Rockets reusable and make space travel much more
efficient that makes it special. And I want you the girl or boy with the brilliant
mind to come out of your shell and enlighten the world with your
new ideas, the more the merrier. 