hi everyone! Today i was in my music room with my 1000 instruments   searching for inspiration  and i started playing guitar on this homemade dan k'ni if you want to know more about there is a 
full video on the channel...  Something like this :  and i turn on the camera let's see 108 should be okay   this riff is a 7 8 i want to change to a 
4 4 later so i will record my two clicks this will be like a base pattern, i want to record a bass on the keyboard,   i don't know if i will use 
it but it will help me for composing I double this with the mouth violin.... I want to add some flute.  This one is one of my latest prototype. This is a hybrid between an indian "Bansuri" and the "Peule flute" from west africa ;  the fingering , the geometry of the instrument is close 
to the "Bansuri" ;   The mouthpiece is larger and inspired by my pvc "Peule flute" so i can play it with more attack and mouth noises it sounds better with the voice and even with the beatbox let's record this baby ... and more flute!  This one is a "chromatic peule style flute" and i want to add my bit box pan flute to get more attack Time to record some drums!  What i hear is the bass drum like uh : to be with the wawa playing...  I got this plastic tank that gives really nice bass drums... really! should be okay with some quantizer i will keep the hi-hat and double 
it with another instrument :  this one It needs some little accidents 
let's try with the cowbell now i want a more homemade 
bass...  Let's bring the big pipes! Okay!  This is good! But not enough bass.... I will copy the pvc pipe's line and translate it one octave lower Much better!  Okay! That can be a fun loop for my youtube videos background,  but it's quite empty.  I will try this one for the first time!!!  This is a copper pipe chromatic keyboard   and i had some fun time in the workshop trying to generate some random chords just like that :  ... I could do this all day...  Let's try to sample some with the music... i also want to record the 7 8 riff and sorry but i have to so satisfying!!!!  To finish this track i want to recall the  crazy solo with a lot of distortion on the tin whistle because "why not"? The distortion is on. Let's do this i have some edit to... oh sorry... I have some edit to do and we will see what we got I will add this music and a few sample packs 
with this recording.  There is still my ebook available only on Patreon for those who want to build some pvc pipe flutes. See you soon! 