Okay, this is Jin nd Hattie - Jin today, I'm gonna do prank to my girlfriend Kind of bit jealous prank because she did the Jealous prank before so this is revenge time but I'm not gonna do a strong thing. Just gonna watch Jenny music video Solo with smiley face When she comes back because she just went to the dry cleaning because of her old coat So she will come back very soon. Let's just Will see hmm I think this is a perfect angle. So this, okay There's only gonna cost 30,000 won! how cheap is that for my whole coat Oh Babe you could have washed up you have got all your cake stuff here. What are you watching? Is that Jennie from blackpink? You Hello?. Oh, hey, baby. Hey Oh, hello, I was watching blackpink music video. Jennie Jennie. Just Solo video How was it how was your day? It was good! Thanks AWKWARD Let me keep watch it. I was busy baby. Mm-hmm. I was busy. Let me keep watching. Did they all have solo video? so is it just just Jenny who has a solo video Huh Hey-oh I Do they all have a solo video? Is it only Jennie who has a solo video? Only Jennie! This title is Solo. Why does she  ahh~    Jin - I really love her. Um, she's very pretty right. She's beautiful Oh.. why are you crying!No! Do you want to...? You are also an angel but she also... Do you want to die..? Don't say stuff like that to me~! You can think that but you are not supposed to say it to your girlfriend's face! If you think that she's an angel good, that's fine She looks like an angel you're not supposed to tell me that she thinks you think she's an angel looks cool I'm supposed to be there any angel no God What the heck Jin! Whatever whatever!just go Don't even make eye contact with me Babe! Wait a moment. Okay, you can you can. This is to help your eyesight. this helps your eyes the screen is too bright, babe You also watch The Itaewon class and see Park Seo Jun  simple and always huh~~ He is handsome~HE is Handsome!!! Just make sure your eyes sh~~sh! You can't get sun glare back from it it might hurt your eyes This is how you should watch it, baby like this So It doesn't hurt your eyes Wow don't drop these !This is very expensive they cost me... But actually she is really hot.. what the heck Baby I Cannot do this anymore baby baby. I mean, I know there's camera baby. Please don't I cannot do this? I'm not brave as you. Stop This was prank, okay, this is Prank, this is Prank, huh? This was just  prank. Oh my god cleanse you of your sin No cameras, I don't want to be on the camera Let's watch Black pink together. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Okay, if you think she she is pretty right, but I'm just gonna get in my position Okay i am ready. Why you are laughing at me. This was Jin and Hattie bye~ 