(Some relaxing afternoon) Today The singer I like Her concert.. You know the singer whose concert ticket
I failed to buy IU I heard she opened an MD shop I want to buy that Let's go in Oh It looks pretty April? Does that mean it's only sold on April? Or it came out on April? Log-in first But I didn't join for the membership Do I have to join the membership? I agree on all of this I should read them all But I trust EDAM so I agree all But I'm supposed to read it all Verify myself? I have to verify myself? How can I trust EDAM 
and verify myself? Huh? I forgot the password even though
I joined yesterday Can't access due to
10 password errors You can use mine Take him away (lost here as well) There people (they're awfully suspicious) Don't you have to enter 
your e-mail address too? Oh I have to enter the e-mail address That's what I just said Why won't anyone listen when I say it I just said it but Nobody would listen!! (You don't write your email address on your ID) There's an MD I want to buy I couldn't go to
the Love, poem concert last year I got the waiting number The zip-up hoodie... I wanted to buy it so bad But I couldn't buy it Now there's an MD shop Now I can buy them all This is the MD I couldn't buy
at Love, poem Now I can buy the magic cushion I can buy everything What a world we live in Now I don't have to go myself Huh? It's sold out Both of them are sold out? They don't sell the blue one Only the Grey ones What's this? I thought they sell them all So I can't buy it? It's even non-purchase item? You know They could use words that feel less bad Something like  Why couldn't they say that? Saying non-purchase Just makes me feel bad And it's not available ever? It doesn't look hard to make I can't buy it ever? Why? Why? Why won't they sell it? There's a consumer who wants to buy it I'll sell you mine What? You have blue one? I do You have blue one? How is... Did you buy it yourself? I did You bought it yourself? Then I have nothing to say... (grumble) Hehehehe I should have been diligent Come on All companies are like this They only have a few of
most demanding items It's like they're teasing me If they could make them,
why won't they? There are consumers
who want them They know there are consumers like me
yet they won't make them I didn't take EDAM for someone like this ! Argh How can I turn off the monitor Argh Go away Now... They have videos too (it seems to be loading) Why won't it come out Video It was playing just now No The video Video It's showing now (perfect) Hehehe (Lee Jieun fell in love with IU) Nice Let's see in the order of
 Huh? This item must have gotten
the best review The badge Binder has the lowest review Why? (We'll work hard to get 
perfect reviews for all items - EDAM) B-type is sold out I like A-type more anyway I have to buy the poster Posters They're not 12,000 won each, are they? 12,000 won for three There are 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 posters I have to buy this I really wanted to buy this one Notebook It's a notebook... It says notebook right here I only read as it says This notebook is only 15,000 won I bought them all right? Yes I'm the biggest fan of IU Shopping cart There are 12? I don't think I have to buy them all How will you pay? Pay? I'll pay with the company card I worked hard this year The company can do that much for me If they won't then... This... Joining the membership is hard I don't think joining for
the membership is mandatory Let's see I agree all terms Because I'm a believer Because I believe in EDAM The buyer (Jeong Hanteo) Email... (she wrote it for real)
Jeong Hanteo Delivery message Is there a message you want to send? Please send it quick Please send it quick It's urgent It's urgent (please send it quick) It's very urgent The paying person Jeong Hanteo It better be done now (The order has been received. Thank you) Now I heard its delivery is really fast If I pay today... If I pay right here and now It should be here tomorrow, right? (they'll send it tomorrow lol) 