(Domics Intro) My first gambling experience happened when I was maybe, mmm, eight or nine years old. No, I didn't sneak into a casino, or bet on chicken fights (That happened when I was 12) No, my first participation in gambling involved the kids currency of my elementary school's recess grounds - Slammers! If you grew up in the 90s, you might remember pogs and Slammers, generically known as milk caps, which was a popular game for kids that involved using two types of flat disks. The pogs are typically cardboard cutouts with designs on either side. I remember I had this pog maker where you could insert cutouts of magazines, or literally whatever drawing you want and make pogs with him. It was neat. Unfortunately, the kids at my school didn't give a shit about pogs, We only cared about Slammers! The heavier disc made from plastic, and sometimes rubber and metal But we banned those from play The rules were simple. First you and your opponent select an amount of pogs to bet, but since my school went hard we bet Slammers. Once you've agreed on the amount You pile them on top of each other facedown in whatever order you wish. Then you select your goes first usually by calling heads or tails on a slammer flip, and then you take turns using one of your Slammers, separate from the pile and throwing it at the pile to flip them face-up. If the person manages to flip some over, you take the remaining facedown Slammers and restack them and then it's the other person's turn. Whoever flips the most, wins. NO ONE at my school played for fun. Everyone played for keeps. So whichever ones you flip, was then yours. I didn't really understand the stakes of when you bet something that belonged to you and didn't know for sure if you'd win it back But... I was a kid. The concept of value was still in development. It was a new experience. I didn't really have that many Slammers I don't exactly remember but I assume pogs sets probably only come with like two or four Slammers because you didn't really need any more than that to flip the pogs with another player But then at school you have kids with long cylindrical cases pouches and deep pockets full of Slammers, like you could tell which kid was bawlin depending on how loud he jingled when they walked. I don't know who determined their value but some Slammers were apparently more rare than others. So some people would even bet with multiple of their less valuable Slammers to match it's worth when challenging someone. I was one of those people who apparently had a rare slammer or maybe mine was just in better condition and more colorful I guess? I'm not sure which one I had. It could have been a simple design from Lion King It might have been spawn. It might have been a Star Wars one I don't remember But some kid at recess saw that I was looking to play and he bet two of his Slammers for one of mine. I accepted. heads or tails? Um... heads? No wait, tails! Um.. okay, so... then it's my turn? and just like that. I lost my first slammer. I mean looking back like, okay, whatever It was just a slammer, probably worth like a less than a dollar, but no! I was devastated man As a kid, I only owned so many things. So to lose anything? It hit hard. I had to win it back. Wait! I'll... I'll play you for this one. It was my last slammer. and because I was betting it, I didn't have another to slam with So I asked the kid if I could borrow his and like the good sport he was, he let me Whoa, I - I won! And I was reunited with my Simba Spawn Wars slammer Rematch- It felt... Good! It was the beginning of a childhood gambling addiction I was in the game. All my friends were too. We played it every recess and honed our craft People were even doing dumb ritual techniques before they slammed, like it was good luck? They honestly only worked half the time, but I guess that was enough for people to believe it was good luck The recess grounds were ruthless. Certain kids developed Reputations for being the best in the game, and it was suicide to try and challenge them They were noobs stompers. If they challenged you, it was advised to reject them. But kids accepted anyway because if you didn't, you'd be called A CHICKEN. Honestly, I'm surprised there isn't an anime based on pogs and Slammers. Not saying it'd be good, I'm just surprised it doesn't exist already. There were plenty of times where I lost all of my Slammers. But like any gambling addiction, that wasn't enough to stop me from playing. I went to friends and asked for loans on their Slammers And promised to owe him back just so I could get back in the game Mike... I-I need your help. Could I borrow one of your- No, Domi. My best friend at the time nicknamed me Domi, based on the hockey player 'Tie Domi' and so I went by Domi in elementary school. No Domi. You've had enough. This game has ruined you. Mike Mike... Please, I-I have a family. Yeah, well, so do I! ... Right, h-how's your mom by the way? She's good, asked when you'll come over for dinner again Hmm, maybe this Friday? After you lend me a slammer! It was nuts. We got so bad that one time some kid tripped or something and dropped all of his Slammers, and instead of helping him, Kids just looted him and ran. And I'm gonna be up-front. I was a well-behaved child, but I wasn't a model child. I was one of those kids. I'm sorry, I'm not proud of it, but I'm a changed man now Now, I lose actual real money at casinos 