(Preview of this week's highlight)
Do it fast, speed, speed (Preview of this week's highlight)
Challenge (Preview of this week's highlight)
Challenge (Preview of this week's highlight)
Wow Hello, this is BO MI of BBOM BBOM BBOM Everyone, after I've been thinking While taking a rest (during my day off) And I came out with a 
really nice content And that was BO MI's challenge Everyone, have you ever watched
Dad's Challenge back in the past? (BO MI referred to that)
It's a little bit similar to that The person who will cheer for
the first content has come And he's quite an extraordinary guest It's JEE SEOK JIN (Lol) Hello I was surprised after listening 
to you a while ago Why? It's the first episode of
BO MI's challenge, so - The first episode
- I don't know how it will turn out Usually, in the first recording of a show You don't know how many
hours it would take BBOM BBOM BBOM viewers The fans are called BBOSONG - I'm in a trouble
- Why? Because I'm BBOSONG too.. (She doubts what she just heard)
Ah really.. is that really true? (She doubts what she just heard)
Yes, it's really true - Because..
- Why are you BBOSONG? - Uhahaha
- Because.. - Are they.. really called BBOSONG?
- Ah, don't lie to me, for real The reason why I'm BBOSONG Is that there is a song that
I've sung so often in Running Man Bbosong, bbosong,
you should go bbosong today Okay then.. can't you change yours?
To Bbyosong? Ah, then I can't use BBOSONG anymore, huh? Right, ah but, tell me that as well Your YouTube channel is 
also opened now, right Ayy.. don't say such thing..
it's okay - I didn't show up here for that
- I got it, okay okay - Okay then
- But still, support me a lot Hey, you stop me right away though? My 'Jeeseokjin World' Number of subscribers 
surpassed 100,000 already (Congratulations) (Congratulations)
I thank you so much (Jjamba reaction right away) The first challenge we're gonna do I'll show you a video of it With a video? (Impressed)
Oh okay, wow this is such a (Wearing a stocking on head) (Put a cup on top, take the
stocking out and it's a success!) (Put a cup on top, take the
stocking out and it's a success!) (Can't believe what just happened) (Dumbfounded) (Dumbfounded)
BO MI is really By the way, don't you think
this is gonna be easier than we think? It's done, you just need to
put this on top like this It's the first challenge (Shameless)
Uhahahaha This is the one you talked about 
on the phone Can you take your shirt of by any chance?
This was that one Wow but, I get so ambitious for it, huh? Right? Should I do it by myself? (Impressed) The challenger - You could do it while sitting down
- Okay Okay BBOSONGs! (Heroic)
JEE SEOK JIN will succeed (Worried)
This is gonna be alright, huh? (Worried)
I wouldn't look gross, huh? (Kind BO MI)
It's okay, you play lots of games Uh, it's okay but
I'm sorry SEOK JIN Uh.. SEOK JIN.. I should do it with this
Put it on top I'm sorry (Challenge 1. Put a cup on top
and take off the stocking) (Challenge 1. Put a cup on top
and take off the stocking) It's done, oh it's done (Challenge 1. Put a cup on top
and take off the stocking) (Confidence ON)
Ah but I'd succeed this one Hey, it's hard though (Practice) (Unsettled)
Like this? (You should also go through it)
Okay (BO MI.. you're okay.. huh?) (Even.. even now!) (Consideration ON)
Grab it, let's do it only to this much Let's do it only to this much
and put it on top Do it fast, speed, speed (Uh...?) (Embarrassed)
Hey, you almost did it (Short)
It's short Wow, this can be done, huh? It can be done It's a success if it stands 
for about 3 seconds, okay Okay, the first challenge is failed Okay, the second one Okay Let's go Challenge One two.. (Sad) - I know how to do it
- I think we can do it Let's go BO MI At least you should succeed Ah, this one falls down to front Okay, the third one.. (Trick ON)
He rolled this part tightly (Practice) This is how you take it out Ah this is done
SEOK JIN, you can do it Good, it's perfect, perfect Hey, try putting it on the
back of my head Try putting it on the
back of my head, that's also okay - That's still allowed, right
- Okay (JEE SEOK JIN got 1 victory) (JEE SEOK JIN got 1 victory)
Yay - Yay, yahahaha
- It's done It's done Wow, it's a success If I fail this, you're the winner I got it, I got it - Urgh
- Ah I won Okay, JEE SEOK JIN won the first challenge Yay Okay now, it's the second challenge It doesn't make sense that I succeeded Wow, it doesn't make sense
that I succeeded.. right? BBOSONGs, you watched me, huh? (Lol) We'll watch the video The second challenge (Please focus watching it) (Roughly, this is a success) At once (Challenge 2. Taking out a beer bottle  
cap with a chopstick) Challenge (Challenge 2. Taking out a beer bottle  
cap with a chopstick) (BO MI succeeded) This makes no sense Hahahaha The challenge is over Is it over? Wow, this doesn't makes sense,
is this possible? ((Rush) Added 2 bottles because
she took it out too easily) ((Rush) Added 2 bottles because
she took it out too easily) Okay okay Let's do it this way Challenge But I guess this is possible Okay Yay (Can't you do it.. with three bottles..? Ah okay, call Since it's easy, call Three bottles, call Challenge Three bottles, three bottles Okay (Delighted)
Look at their faces dispirited Wow, you feel so dispirited, huh? It's too dispirited, huh?
You didn't expect us to do it, huh? Since I succeeded first for this one (Zero tolerance)
We could say that I won, right? Okay okay, let's say you won it (Telling the truth)
We have penalties later, you know (Dumbfounded)
There's a penalty, huh Now it's 1:1 (Well... anyways, it's 1:1...!) Since it's the first content,
we couldn't prepare penalties properly - What is it?
- Just, water slapping (He gave up)
Okay, that's.. the easiest thing Water slapping..
my life is water slapping Then, we'll watch a video of
the last challenge (Please focus watching it...) (Just like the grandma, if you put)
(Mentos on a coke first, you'd win) Ah, it's simple Okay, the last challenge is To goal-in Mentos on the coke 
right here, and burst it Burst it Then, I'll start first Okay You have three chances to throw 
in each turn (Challenge 3. Goal-in Mentos in coke)
Challenge (Challenge 3. Goal-in Mentos in coke)
Oh, it's too far, huh? (Challenge 3. Goal-in Mentos in coke)
I should win this to avoid water slapping.. Wow, this is so difficult - Okay now, it's my turn
- This is possible though? Back in the days, when we were young BO MI, it might not be when you were young We played marbles on streets At that time, we didn't have 
any internet games We played marbles, you know (Generation gap ON)
It's just big as this one We used to play games
to put stuff like this here Uhh (Releaved lol) Ah, that was so close (Since it's too far, distance 
is adjusted...) You do it well though (But still, it doesn't get in...) Wow.. it hit right over here (A FEW MOMENTS LATER) Ohhhh (JEE SEOK JIN finally won the challenge) (JEE SEOK JIN finally won the challenge)
Wow, amazing Wow, it got in right inside You do it completely well Wow, what just happened Okay Okay Amazing wow, I won this SEOK JIN won this Victory (The time for penalty...) Are you gonna be alright? I'm doing this because we promised Everyone, I have no intention
to do this to BO MI at all But I'm doing this now
for BO MI's channel Ah of course, you know that, right? - It's not gonna be fun if you do it lightly..
- I know it, I know it It's not fun if I do it lightly Are you gonna be alright? Is there anything you wanna 
say for the last time? BO MI, be happy (Happy) (Happy)
It splashed on me as well BO MI, are you alright? Wow, it hit her and even
came back to me now, look at this (He's all wet as well)
SEOK JIN, was it fun? Yes, it was fun Really, for the last time..
it's not finished yet (Lol)
What is it, it's not finished yet? Now, you should share your thoughts - Ah, I could share my thoughts though
- We'd have a tasty food and wrap up We even get to eat food? (Doubting x 1000)
Why do we eat food in this circumstance (Doubting x 1000)
It doesn't look natural at all (A FEW MOMENTS LATER)
(The unnatural time has passed..) Okay then SEOK JIN, from here We don't have anything to eat, right (He got the feeling)
Ah, the chopsticks... You should turn back Okay now, they'd put tools
for you to eat something (King chopsticks)
You could choose the seat (King chopsticks)
Ah, the seats (Normal chopsticks VS king chopsticks)
And then, if you eat all of it first Right away I could just leave right away? You could just leave right away I got it (Penalty spot)
The other remaining person would (Penalty spot)
Keep staying here until finish eating Then, they might give us something
like a tooth pick, huh? (Lol) (He got about half of it lol)
Something like a swab (He got about half of it lol)
Two swabs or something like that, huh? Shall we switch our seats? Let's switch it, I wanna sit here Shall we switch our seats? Switch it, switch it - Is it okay?
- Yes, of course I guess they gave you a good one (Lol) Just my feeling says that..
since they're your staffs I guess they gave you a good one So I think on my spot.. They gave me some difficult one But since we switched our seats The good one must be on this side One.. Two three Wow, things are going really
well today somehow Uh? I succeeded on everything,
it's quite perfect Oh wow, how can you eat this one? Ah, I shouldn't have switched the seats How can you eat that Hahahahaha Ah, you should have been here,
how should I eat this Hey, you can't grab that part though Then where? BO MI, you should hold the edge part Ah BO MI, it was fun today I thank you SEOK JIN
for working so hard on it.. Umm, no problem But I can't eat this anyway Umm, it's delicious Ah, it's good How was it today, SEOK JIN? Today was my first time showing up on 
someone else's YouTube channel Ah really? I thank you Really really He told me he'd come right away
without any hesitation Really, I didn't say
'I'd think about it and call you tomorrow' Call me next time, when you're
doing something hard on.. Jeeseokjin World I'll call you to revenge on you Really, call me when you're doing
something difficult I'm gonna try something like that Having a real beer bottle
and a beer bottle toy Choose one, and hit it on my head
something like this Hahahahaha Wow, I really ate all of it, wow I know Really, why is it so delicious? That was a good meal BO MI, go in, I'll call you soon Really - I'll do something hard in Jeeseokjin World..
- SEOK JIN, thank you, call me for sure Can you.. do something like bungee jumping? You can't do that, can you? If you do it, I can do it as well I'll prepare something like skydiving We have something like bungee jumping 
without a rope, you know? I'll call you soon Okay Ah, I'm leaving without saying goodbye..
Say goodbye on behalf of me.. That I couldn't say goodbye
before I left.. Ah, saying goodbye.. BBOSONG everyone, he says thank you He asked many of you to click
subscribe on Jeeseokjin World from now JEE SEOK JIN will leave now Then, since I ate most of it Ah but really,
JEE SEOK JIN is the best Really He's so funny SEOK JIN, you could really leave now Okay, I'll really leave Really leave (It's said BO MI had the ramen)
(with even rice in it before she left..) 