I’m here to take my MBTI test today. I’ll take the test now. (Find TWICE’s MBTI)
Let's go! “You often ignore or forget about your surroundings.” (Agree)
Ah. Totally! Totally.
SANA will know this. SANA talks to me a lot. “Blah-blah-blah,
something happened.” If I get distracted or something, I can’t hear her. If I daydream,
I can’t hear her. She always asks,
“Are you listening?” That I agree. "You think you're better than others." Yes. I have to! “You’re eager and enthusiastic.” How's that? Agree? “Your house and
work environment are tidy.” Of course! I’ll pick "neutral." “You don’t care about attention.” (Disagree)
(Shaking head) I need attention. “You think you’re
more practical than creative.” Practical more than impractical? I think I’m impractical. "You rarely get angry at others." That’s true. Even if I get angry, I settle it on my own, in my head. "You generally set up
detailed travel plans." No. “Sometimes, it’s hard
to sympathize with others.” No, it’s not hard. "You often experiment mood swings." Yes, I think so. "You don't care about
how your actions influence others." Of course I care! Isn’t that my job? “You envy others sometimes.” Envy other people? If I see pretty people
or other celebrities, I get envious. “When you roam in nature,
you often get lost in thought.” Yes, in Han River! I got buried in my thoughts
when I went there alone. “If your friend is depressed, you give emotional support rather than
suggesting a solution.” I don’t know
how to comfort others, but I think I’m good at
comforting others. Oh, it’s done! INFP-T. There you go. “Passionate Mediator.” Introversion, 75%. (Reading thoroughly) (Reading thoroughly) “...have an inner flame.” I can’t think of... Here’s an example. When I speak to others, speak to complete strangers, I can’t speak up,
and I turn shy. But when I have to perform, I perform,
so I guess it’s true. (Reading again)
“Gifted when it comes to learning a language.” I do speak Korean,
but I can’t switch that well between languages. (Their ability unifies people
and helps achieving goals) I hate it when people fight, so settling it
in an entertaining way is the most important. The latter half is correct. “Unlike other extroverted people, mediators focus on just a few people or a single worthy cause, rather than trying to achieve
several things at once.” Since I was young...
Dance is one thing. I did nothing but dance
since I was little, so I wasn’t interested in anything else. (1. Interested in art)
I think it's true. To be honest,
I'm terrible at drawing, but it's interesting.
I draw a lot at home. I think it's true. Makeup is also a form of art. Isn't dancing a performing art as well? One more thing. I went to get my tarot cards read with SANA they said the same thing about arts. (INFP for MOMO)
(2. Experiences a lot of ups and downs) I think this is right. I have a lot of ups and downs but I try to hide it
since it's really strong which I really don't try to show to others. (INFP for MOMO)
(3. Follows their own style) I do like a lot of stuff that are trending, but I don't appreciate it when
everyone follows a certain style just because it's trending. 4. (You enjoy things that are impromptu)
I went to Busan with Nayeon... And we're similar in the aspect that we went and didn't even plan for our trip. So we just enjoyed our time there and went wherever we wanted to and ate stuff that was just
around without looking anything up. But it turned out well. We had so much fun. And when I went to Hawaii with SANA, we went with no plans and
just did everything on the spot. (INFP for MOMO
(5. Sensitive to other people's words) Um... Am I? But I do tend to care
about what others say... Yeah, I do. It was very interesting because you
don't take a test like this every day. I think there are parts that are true and some parts where it isn't. But I think they got most of it correct so it was very interesting. I don't know if this was fun for you, but if you did have fun, thank you. See you soon! 