- If I were not
interviewing you right now, what would I ask you? I'd probably ask you just if you're okay. - I am okay, but thank you. - I mean, has this been scary? - There are a lot of scary things. Yeah, yeah. I mean, yes. Short answer, yes it's scary. But, there are other really
scary things other than COVID. The world doesn't revolve around COVID. - Well, right now, it sure does. - Right now, it does, but... Well, yeah, of course, it's scary, but that's our job. - Hey, I'm Dianna. You're watching "Physics Girl" with a pretty different
type of video this week. I wanted to do some interviews. I had a ton of questions about COVID-19. It's been a bit of a hard
topic to think about, but asking questions always helps me to make sense of things. So, I reached out to some friends, specifically Valerie Waters, who's an emergency room
nurse practitioner here in San Diego who has been
seeing dozens of COVID patients. And Arti Virkud, who's an epidemiologist. She's a doctoral student at the University of North Carolina, and lucky for us, they were willing to
answer all of my questions. And we had some incredibly
interesting conversations. Like it directly impacts your work, which is really fascinating, but has it, from a personal level, been unexpected in any way? - I mean, it's definitely been a surprise. Working from home is hard. (both laughs) - Val told me all about everything from what it's like running
a hospital right now, when there are not enough tests to... If you imagine fake patient
Dianna who gets the disease and it gets bad enough to
the point where she has to go to the emergency room. What does that experience look like? I talked with Arti about some
fascinating stories related to how cultural practices
like burial practices can lead to the spread of diseases like Ebola? Really interesting
conversations that I wanted to share with you all. It really gave me insight into the process of science being done
during this pandemic, and how has impacting the lives of people doing that science? So, I think that's a good place to start. I asked Val, who's been seeing
dozens of COVID-19 patients, "What it's like at the
hospital right now?" and "How the pandemic has
changed their daily lives?" You're gonna work every day, and you are seeing firsthand
these patients with COVID-19. What has it been like for you? - Things are changing day-to-day. One of the biggest things was
there were not enough tests. So, initially we were
following very strict protocols on who to test? Who not to test? You know, so we were
probably turning people away who had COVID-19 because
we couldn't test them but- - At that moment, where you had to turn people away, like, was that hard for you guys? Or were people upset? Like, were they- - Yeah, yeah. I mean, people are definitely
scared across the board. There's still a huge, widespread fear and I think, when this first started, so many people were coming in just to know if they had the virus or not. It wasn't just because they
were feeling so terribly, it was because they thought, "Oh, I have to know if I have COVID-19." - Things are changing so
fast that in the two weeks since I interviewed Val, the entire hospital staff
at the emergency department has been tested for
COVID-19 and antibodies. Plus, there been a flood
of patients since then with other conditions, not COVID-19, but like heart conditions
and cancer who are very sick. But we're staying home
during the stay-at-home order for fear of the virus. So, the hospital has gotten a lot busier just since that interview, but Val told me they were prepared for that potential wave of patients. Plus, the normal
emergency room experience, like going and just sitting
in the waiting room, that has all changed. - I remember a particular moment in which we got our COVID tent. (both laughs) So- - What is the COVID tent? - The COVID tent is actually pretty cool. Basically, what we started doing is we started triaging patients
outside of the waiting room. - That's so different than normal. - Yeah, it is so different. They triaged every single patient, whether they have
COVID-19 symptoms or not. You know, that was a big moment, because we can keep the more
infectious people outside. - Val had so much more to share, especially on "What it's
like to have the disease?" and we're gonna get to that, but I wanna introduce
Arti's research first. And what epidemiology is in general? 'Cause it's been in the news a lot lately. Though, I actually didn't fully understand what the field is. - A lot of people think about
Modern Epi as being founded by John Snow.
- Oh, Epi, is that what you call it? - Oh, yes, sorry. (laughs) To make life a little easier and not have to say
epidemiology all the times. An epidemiologist is
interested in the disease. How many people have it? Where is it? When are people having it? And then what is causing this? How, when, where of the disease, and how can we prevent it? - For example, with COVID-19, epidemiologists might be interested in studying the number of cases, the number of deaths, the demographics, maybe a map of the outbreaks, and then over time looking
at the effectiveness of treatments and then
potentially eradicating the disease forever. I was really surprised at how wide ranging and diverse epidemiological work is. For example, imagine there's a mysterious Lyme disease
outbreak in Vermont. - They might actually go out into forests and actually collect ticks. Some of my colleagues
actually have done this as part of like, their summer internships- - No kidding. - where they're out in forest, collecting the ticks that like accumulate on their pant legs and
testing for disease. - So, it's like disease detectives. Another interesting aside
I really wanted to leave in was actually the origin of epidemiology, which dates back to the 1800's
with a man named John Snow, not related to "Game of Thrones". - There was a Cholera outbreak in London and he used a combination
of his medical background and Spatial Epidemiology
to figure out that all of the cases were not actually
attributable to just bad air, but rather a contaminated water pump. And it was the water supply
that was causing disease. - So, Arti's field of
epidemiology comes in to study the disease, to inform many actions, including public policy. For example, previous studies on social distancing have impacted the current
stay-at-home order policies. So, while many of us are hearing
the term social distancing for the first time really recently, Arti pointed me to dozens
of epidemiological studies that predate even 2019 that looked into how social distancing
could be applied to prevent the spread of
Ebola or flu epidemics. So, we're making current
decisions based off of those past epidemiological studies, which means that one of the benefits of studying COVID-19 now will
be to inform future pandemics or even a second wave of COVID-19, which we think might be coming because of, again, evidence from
studying past outbreaks, like the 1918 flu. Meanwhile, Val and her
healthcare colleagues are taking everything that scientists know and applying it to treatments to give the best care
possible that we know of at the moment. There's a step in there missing where scientists study the pathogen, like the virus itself to try and create treatments like a vaccine, which brings me to my next question, relating COVID-19 and the flu. So, I talked to Val first about this and asked her about some
comparisons between the symptoms. - So, you know, we can
compare different symptoms. Like for example, typically the flu gives
you much worse body aches than COVID-19 does. You know, studies are showing that typically COVID-19 makes
you more short of breath than influenza does, etcetera. But, both of them make
you feel pretty terrible. And oftentimes, we're
testing people for both. Now, we're in mid-April, so rates of flu are dropping off, but we're still seeing it. - Besides the symptoms, a comparison between COVID-19 and influenza can be really confusing, because they impact the
population differently. The flu is a seasonal virus
that keeps coming around and a lot of the population
has already been affected. Whereas, SARS-CoV-2, which is the virus that causes COVID-19 is an emerging pathogen, which is a term used to describe novel or new viruses we've never
been exposed to before. Which means that the
entire population could be and has pretty much been
shown to be susceptible. With the flu, we already
have measures in place to protect against it. We've got education, like we know about the flu
season and washing our hands. There's the flu shot, and even still scientists
take influenza very seriously. Arti told me about studies
that use social media to track influenza outbreaks, but all these studies and
precautions about the flu don't make the news as much. Plus, science doesn't
know definitively yet, whether COVID-19 antibodies
actually protect you against future infections. That's kind of crazy that
we still don't know that. So, Arti actually studies
this type of epidemiology that has to do with how
effective treatments are once we've created them. - It might be easy to contextualize it in this current pandemic. Something that is really
reassuring to a lot of people is this idea of a vaccine. You know, we have some lessons from flu that we can actually take and translate to how we think about what would happen with a coronavirus vaccine. We know that there are
genetic changes that happen to the influenza virus, and that makes it really difficult to create a vaccine that's a perfect fit. - It's such a complex process. Even when you already have a vaccine, the virus can change and
then there's human behavior. Arti and I talked about
that specific question. I'm curious whether this
whole pandemic experience is going to change how many
people go get the flu shot every year? - Oh, that's a really
interesting consequence. I hadn't really thought that- - I went last year and
this what year to get it. Before that, I wasn't... Even though I had the flu, I think that this maybe
has made me think twice about the fact that there are really, really tough and awful
diseases like the flu and you have vaccines for them. Why not go get it? - Trust plays a really interesting role in how effective an intervention is. I, honestly, I would be, as an epidemiologist, a little worried that if
the coronavirus vaccine that gets made ends up getting distributed and maybe is not as effective
as people had hoped, that maybe they'll lose a
little more trust in vaccines, which is unfortunate. I think epidemiologists and all the people who make vaccines and distribute them, they work hard to make them
as effective as possible and are honest with
how effective they are. - Right. - And providers are as
honest as they can be. - The next question and
topic I was curious about is the accuracy and
availability of information. I think a lot of us
wanna know how many of us have actually had the disease, but didn't know, didn't show symptoms. How many cases have there truly been? - We know that this data is not perfect. The quality of the
tests might be variable, especially as we develop tests and that's information that
might not be readily available to the average person when they go into the hospital and get tested. They might not know how sensitive
or specific the test is. So, sensitivity is the probability that if you truly have the disease, are you going to test positive? And specificity is if you
truly don't have the disease, are you gonna test negative? - Here's why sensitivity is important. Imagine you wanna
estimate the total number of people who have had the disease, not just the number that have been tested, but maybe people who don't have symptoms, maybe people who are sick, but haven't been tested, the total number. A recent study at Stanford
created a bit of drama, because it was used to
estimate that number. What the study actually looked
at was the number of people in Santa Clara County that had
antibodies for the disease, which would indicate how
many people have had it. The problem is the study did not have a very high sensitivity. This means, if you extrapolate the study to a larger population, say hundreds of millions of people, the error could be in the millions. And knowing the accurate total number of people that have been
infected is important for a lot of conversations, including when we may
achieve herd immunity. - But, there's also like lab error. It's not to mention the fact
that we're not testing everyone in the population. So, we can't use the
denominator of the US population to estimate what's the percent
of people who are infected in the US. - All this changing information
and the availability of it is impacting the people who
are then treating the disease. You just talked about getting briefings. - Yeah, so we get daily
emails with our statistics from the day before. How many total cases we've had? How many new cases we have? Any deaths that we've had. You know, we practice intubations for a COVID patient, which are really helpful. So that, again, not everyone is scrambling
around trying to get on your special equipment and get the special gear that you need for these types of innovations, because they're so different. - So... Interesting. So, is it, you don't typically have to
do intubations that often? Or intubations for COVID
patients are different? - Intubations for COVID
patients are different. - Whoa, why is that? - So, the risk of basically
what's called aerosolization is so much greater in
intubation of COVID-19 patients. - Is it more about your protection? - Yeah.
- Got it. - Yeah, it's your protection. So, if a patient comes in that you need to intubate that's COVID-19 positive. The things that we do spread a lot of airborne particles around. That's very dangerous for
all of the staff members that are right there
in that patient's face. - You're telling me that
the hospital's not that busy right now. - So, I wouldn't say that
the hospital isn't busy, but I would say, yeah. I mean, I can't remember the last time that I saw a sprained ankle, for example, because people aren't
going out of their homes. So... - I wouldn't have thought of the decline of sprained ankles during a pandemic. - I know. - Silver lining. - There's a lot of this, Netflix. - Again, a lot has changed
in the last two weeks. The hospital is a lot busier now, and they do have a lot
of COVID-19 patients, which brings me to my next question. I was curious what my
experience might be like if I get the disease so I asked about. She described what a fake
patient might go through and she's in the emergency room. So, she's seen patients that have some of the worst symptoms, but this is a walkthrough
coming from her experiences, dealing with real life patients. - So, Dianna walks through the door and she's been sick for
about a week and a half. And she really doesn't feel well. She's had fevers for five days. She's been really fatigued. She's been coughing nonstop, and she feels really short of breath. Dianna has gone to
urgent care twice so far in the past week and a half, because she feels so miserable. Her last chest x-ray a few days ago showed that she was starting
to develop pneumonia, but she otherwise is doing okay. So, she has-
- Hold on. Chest x-rays tell you whether you have pneumonia?
- Yup! - I didn't know that.
- Yup! - Just learned another thing.
- Yes. - Okay. - Dianna has had pneumonia for three days. So, Dianna comes to the
emergency department today because her antibiotics
aren't making her feel better and she's feeling so much
worse and she can't breathe. So, she gets another x-ray and it shows that her
pneumonia is worsening. And she's been there
for about 10 hours now. We're watching her oxygen saturation. We're watching her heart rate, and her blood pressure,
and her temperature. It looks like she's having a
lot more trouble breathing. So, now, we notice that
Dianna's oxygen saturation is getting a little bit too low. - What does that feel like for Dianna? - Dianna feels like she's
breathing really rapidly and she can't take a deep breath and she may have some pain in
her chest a little bit too. - Well, I just... I don't know that I've ever like, does it just feel like, it's like hard to breathe? Like...
- Right, or that you just went on a big run and you can't catch your breath. - Okay, gotcha. - So, now, do you see that
Dianna is doing much worse? So, now, we decided that
we have to admit her to the hospital. (both laughs) Poor Diana. She's been sick for two weeks
and she is doing much worse. I think it was about the end of the story. - Why is it specifically, I mean, sounding like you're short... You're having trouble breathing or you're short of
breath sounds terrifying, but from a medical perspective, why is it that, that would be the symptom
that indicates you need to go see a doctor or
a medical professional? - We are seeing a lot of patients with COVID-19 developed pneumonia, which is oftentimes a
reason why they're feeling so short of breath. Oftentimes, these patients come in and their oxygen saturation is very low. They need to be put on
supplemental oxygen. And yes, that is absolutely a reason to come to the emergency department because these patients
can deteriorate very fast. - COVID-19 is leaving its
lasting mark on society. I talked a little bit to Arti about, what the future may
look like as we continue to study the disease. And she reflected back on past
studies of various diseases, and what we've learned from them, which led to a really interesting story about cultural shifts following a study of contact tracing of
Ebola in West Africa. - We heard stories about the experiences of epidemiologists who are going out there to do contact tracing and
find out how it was spreading and why it was spreading
in certain communities. And they were doing the incredible work of identifying certain cultural practices that were contributing to
people becoming more exposed to disease. You know, just like today, you know, we have policies to protect us from the current pandemic. They were trying to figure
out how to implement policies, to protect their cultural practices, but also prevent spread of disease. - Great, something like shaking hands is a cultural practice
we've had for centuries. Were there any examples
that you can remember of the cultural practices
that were spreading Ebola? - Yes, so the rituals around burial often involved immersing the deceased into a body of water and family members often enter that body of
water with the deceased. Ebola is really contagious, particularly through bodily fluids. And so, as someone was immersed in water, it was just a conduit to the transmission from the disease to the
individuals who were in the water with that individual. There's not been so much as a major field shifting change yet, but a realization that we
need to think carefully about "Why this happened?" and "What we can do to
prevent it from happening in the future?" And it's gonna include a lot
of really complicated spaces, politics, economics, computer science, and cultural practices. Absolutely, I'd be hard
pressed to think about anything that this disease does not impact. - Arti told me about
another story from India, where they were distributing posters and educational pamphlets
that told people not to spit on the street because
that increases the spread of tuberculosis and that change in human behavior ended
up changing the spread of tuberculosis for good. So, maybe we'll see more of that. Arti said, she's already
seeing posters that say, "Wash your hands." in the hallways at her work. And I saw on one of the stop
signs around where I live, you know, how people put stickers of their favorite brands on stop signs? Well, this was a sticker of
a guy with a hood that said, "Stay safe, stay home." Responsible vandalism. Is there anything you'd wanna
say to the general public? - Yeah, I would tell the general public to please take quarantine seriously, if you are not all ready. So, you can wait that extra
week to see your friend. You can wait for your
friend's birthday party, but you can't wait if
you become really sick or if your loved one who maybe a parent or grandparent also becomes
sick and is at higher risk. I also just wanna thank people who are quarantining themselves and who are not overrunning our hospitals, because things could get really, really bad really, really quickly. - You started saying that you're like, "Take quarantine seriously." I have been, but it's also hard, because this is not an easy thing to do, but as-
- So hard. - It is hard but as soon as you said that, like my eyes got wide and like, all my attention was on you, because I know that you are the person that's being affected by this. I know that you and all your coworkers- - Yeah, and you know, I just wanna thank everyone
for their kindness. You know, and we all appreciate
people checking in on us. And I just feel like we've seen a lot of kindness during quarantine too. And you know, that's something
really good that came out of this, I think. - Honestly, I got part way
through making this video and I almost gave up, because I didn't wanna think
about coronavirus anymore. But, then, I did these interviews and I felt a lot better
about how social distancing is having a positive
impact on people responding to the pandemic. It doesn't make it any easier to deal with the hardships that
come with social distancing, but it helps me understand
better what the response is to COVID-19. So, I'm gonna be staying home. I hope you're all staying home if you can. Stay safe, stay healthy, continue to learn and happy physics thing. 