diana hi~ Hello, I'm Diana from the women's dance team. Nice to meet you~ There's a reason why I came to see you through video today. IZ*ONE is making a comeback today. The song was released at 6 p.m. last night. The music video has not been released yet. We kept waiting for the music video to be released yesterday. But I was so sad to hear that it would be released at noon today. Because it's almost twelve o'clock! I'd like to take a video. IZ*ONE's album to be released today is a mini 3rd album, and the album name is Oneiric Diary. The title track is secret story of the swan. I can feel the feeling of IZ*ONE in the title, too. fairies be like a fairy tale character This concept is a mixture of fantasy and diary. Two words are very contradictory. I was wondering how you mixed those two words, and it had a good meaning. It means that if we dream the same dream, it becomes reality. have such a pretty meaning So while I was really looking forward to this song, the song was released. But the music video with the song and face is so different. But don't you feel very intense when you listen to the song for the first time? Yeah, so I was really surprised. As it was a song we really waited for, we looked it up as soon as the stage came up. But I think there will be many close-up shots in the music video. The story line is important, too. When the teaser came out, I thought the dance was very powerful. IZ*ONE feels pure and bright. But that's not the case with dancing. be very powerful Even the choreography video of the previous song, Fiesta, really fits the group dance. There's a lot of choreography, too. But it's not a song with a strong mood. The song is very pure and bright, but the dance is very powerful. So I wonder how the choreography for this song will turn out. I think it would be better to watch the video than to talk too much. Oh, of course! We're going to film a reaction video right now. let's go!! It's so pretty. Oh, yeah, there was this. The logo is pretty, too. Pretty There was this part in the teaser video. I thought I was in trouble after seeing this. It's so pretty. The real music video goes well with the concept of fantasy. Oh, come on. How does that suit me so well? The background itself seems to go very well with the fantasy. I think everyone looks good in this mysterious concept. Cute What is it? Wow, it's so beautiful. Wow, this is crazy. I missed this close-up shot so much. I've seen it for a second, but I can see it's a great group dance. Cool It's so nice. I feel like I'm crying. The crown looks so good on you. I want to ride that car, too. You can't fall off if you get on it' It's heavy and it's falling. Wow, what is it? The clothes look so good on you. IZ*ONE always wears uniform-like clothing concepts, and they look so good on you. You have a real baby face. It's so pretty. It's hilarious when we wear hats like that. I don't know. It could look good. I think there's some meaning in the circle. I love it. What circle? The floor from before? Behind me? I am so happy that he is my favorite member. What should I do? I think Chae Yeon is the center for the dance break. Wow, this is crazy. It's so pretty. Your clothes are so pretty, too. IZ*ONE seems to practice a lot. I think that circle has some meaning. There were circles on the back and on the floor. I think it really means something. This song is so pretty. I saw the teaser video, and there were many clothes from the beginning of the music video. But not many orange clothes came out in the back. But that dress is so pretty. I'd love to wear something like that. That's Cody working hard. Oh, are you working hard? I'm a choreographer, not a stylist. You are the best dresser among us. No. Look at you dressed up today. It's so pretty. thank you~ I love Avon's song, too. I was glad to see that the choreography for the chorus part is the same. I love this. But there's a problem. There is a dance break We've never done a cover dance of IZ*ONE's songs. The choreography is too difficult. There are so many people, but our team is so small that I never did it because I thought it would be hard to match the composition. For this song, I'm thinking about it. But watching the music video, I think I should think about it more carefully. I suddenly thought of that. And I think this song is very addictive. I think I can hear the chorus part. The song came out yesterday, and the day before that, they did a live LieV broadcast. But they said this was the first time. It's my first time, so I saw you very excited. I watched the live broadcast. I saw him in his pajamas and very excited. And the most memorable part of it is... IZ*ONE said that there is a song for fans in this album. I think that's very meaningful.said a lot of things. So I think I should listen to the song for the fan while looking at the lyrics. So I tried to finish the schedule and listen to the song slowly. Many idol singers say that the songs for their fans are very special. Because I think there are singers only if there are fans. We are also encouraged to see many fans love us as a dance team. I remembered saying that the song for this fan was special. Did you tell him? Yeah, I watched a live broadcast yesterday. I'm very proud to watch the live broadcast. Praise me. I've already seen the stage footage in mirror mode. But I'm really worried. We did a cover dance of TWICE's song, More & More. It's a lot of people, and I think it's really great. It's amazing that 12 people dance the same way. I was really surprised to see the choreography video of the song, Fiesta. It was amazing how they did the same choreography for this part. The group dance is perfect again this time. It's so amazing. I felt that there was a lot of practice. It's really hard for several people to work together. What I felt after watching the music video again this time is that IZ*ONE has their own feeling. That was a one-line summary of the day. Today, IZ*ONE filmed a music video reaction video for secret story of thwan. I'm Diana, the women's dance team. Bye! 