If something’s crammed, communist, and a
country it’s probably China. China used to look like this but now it looks
like this. The country’s grown enormously in the past
few decades both in population and wealth. Now, of course global warming isn’t real
and the earth is flat, but in a world where global warming was real and the earth was
some other shape, the best thing you could do to combat turning Minneapolis into Miami
would be to be poor. The poorest half of the world’s population
only contributes 10% of all carbon emissions. This does make sense as the richest .01% of
the world eat their imported truffled wagyu filets on their private jets traveling to
Ibiza for the day while the poorest .01% eat their meals by, well, not but the bigger factor
is what happens as people get into the upper 10 or 20 or 30% of world wealth. China, for example, was poor but now it’s
somewhat rich which means that its population now eats things like hamburgers which, no
joke, are slowly killing the environment as cows fart huge amounts of methane which is
a greenhouse gas. More importantly, though, more and more people
in China own cars. There are now 217 million cars on Chinese
roads which, considering there were only 59 million ten years ago, is a lot. That means that in ten years, China has essentially
had to triple the capacity of its roads which is basically impossible. Hence, traffic. Now, this is one of China’s busiest roads—National
Highway 110. This highway connects inner Mongolia, the
part of Mongolia that’s in China, to Beijing, the capital. G110 didn’t, however, used to be so busy. What happens when your country transforms
from being mostly composed of poor rural farmers to relatively rich urban populations is that
suddenly you need energy to power everything. See, here’s a graph that says a thing! China didn’t really go for that hippy wind
or solar energy, they went for coal. 70% of their overall energy need is fulfilled
by this rock. Of course this isn’t sustainable long term
as coal isn’t a renewable resource like wind or Batman reboots but for now, it’s
a cheap and easy source of energy. That’s helped by the fact that China has
about 13% of the world’s coal in its ground while Mongolia, China’s neighbor, has about
10%. A good amount of China’s coal is in inner
Mongolia, the region, and they also import plenty of coal from Mongolia, the country. What China doesn’t have, though, is coal
transportation infrastructure… or YouTube, a free press, a market economy, freedom of
movement, freedom of speech, a freely floated currency, or time zones, but the transportation
infrastructure is the important thing it’s missing in this case. There are, for example, only seven roads that
cross the border from Mongolia, the country, to China, the country. What’s worse, there are barely any railways
and trains are the primary means of transportation worldwide for coal as it’s really not very
dense and trucks can’t carry that much. This lack of railways means that there are
huge amounts of trucks driving from inner Mongolia to Beijing carrying coal each and
every day. There are a few routes these trucks can take
into Beijing but the most popular one is G110. That’s because much of the coal coming from
inner Mongolia comes from illegal, unlicensed mines and, while the other routes from inner
Mongolia have inspection stations to combat illegal mining, G110 does not. All these factors compounded to create the
beginnings of a traffic jam on August 14th, 2010. It was the busy summer season and the highway
just couldn’t handle the amount of trucks but the real problem started five days later
as maintenance work began on the highway to fix damage from overuse. That shut down half the lanes at points and
this traffic jam, which had already been going on continuously for five days to a lesser
extent, just became a parking lot. At its worst, the congestion lasted for 60
continuous miles and drivers were only able to move as little as 0.6 miles per day. It took some close to a week to make their
way through this stretch of highway—a journey that would normally take an hour. This whole mini-economy sprung up as villagers
from near the highway walked or biked up and down selling food and drinks. Water, which normally sells for 1 yuan, went
for 15. Drivers took naps under their trucks, played
cards, took walks, there really was no reason to be behind the wheel as nothing was moving. Throughout this all, authorities desperately
tried to reduce the traffic by sending trucks on different routes and telling people not
to drive. As the jam entered its second week nothing
seemed to be working although, with time, as it gained national and international media
attention, people eventually stopped taking the highway and then, finally, after twelve
whole days of bumper to bumper traffic, the congestion dissipated and National Highway
110 was back to normal. China has since built railways, expanded highways,
and cracked down on illegal mining which has prevented any more apocalyptic jams but this
August 2010 one on G110 is now believed to have been the worst traffic jam in world history. 